# Bora Fect

This article is about the Star Frontier character. For other uses, see
. In the original trilogy, the character is a supporting
. Notable for his taciturn demeanor and for never removing his helmet, Fett appears in both
media set after the film, confirming his survival within the new canon, portrayed by
(2002), which reveals the character's origins as the genetic clone and adoptive son of
, also a famous bounty hunter. Morrison appeared first in Star Frontier media playing Jango. The
. The series also reveals that he has another sister named
rather than a villain, and explore his background, motivations, and morality. Daniel Logan reprised his role as the younger version of Fett in the animated series
, has portrayed an adult Boba in most of his
appearances since that film, most prominently in the live-action
, Fett was originally conceived as a member of a group of white-armored Imperial "
" before the idea was scrapped in favor of a solitary bounty hunter. This concept later evolved into the
, a cultural group with strong warrior traditions, who sport armor and helmets similar to Fett's. In several
works, Fett himself is portrayed as a Mandalorian or at least connected to the Mandalorian culture through his armor, with his father Jango confirmed to have been a Mandalorian foundling and war veteran in
The character of Bora Fect quickly became a fan favorite despite his limited presence in the original
trilogy and is now a widely recognized figure in
created Bora Fect in his April 1978 screenplay draft of
, basing the character on Italian filmmaker
. The character needed to be designed quickly, as Lucas had agreed for him to be featured in the
The character's design stemmed from initial concepts for
, who was originally conceived as a rogue
, the bounty hunter concept remained, and Fett became "an equally villainous" but "less conspicuous" character.
influenced Fett's design, which was finalized by and is credited to
and the film's art department built the costume.
Fett's armor was originally designed for "super troopers", and was adapted for Fett as the script developed.
in all-white, Fett's armor eventually garnered a subdued color scheme intended to visually place him between white-armored "rank-and-file"
This color scheme had the bonus of conveying the "gray morality" of his character.
The character's armor was designed to appear to have been scavenged from multiple sources, and it is adorned with trophies.
A description of Fett's armor in the mid-1979
newsletter catalyzed "rampant speculation" about his origins.
By 1979, Fett's backstory included having served in an army of Imperial
Despite two years of widespread publicity about Fett's appearance in
, script rewrites significantly reduced the character's presence in the film.
, is "not music, exactly" but "more of a gurgly,
thing aurally cross-pollinated with some obscure static sounds."
and Edward Steidele, to Fett's appearance in
, intending to make the character menacing and the scene reminiscent of similar
s development, Fett was conceived as being a main villain, but he was finally replaced with
An official reference book states that Fett charges "famously expensive" fees, and that he undertakes only those missions which meet "his harsh sense of justice".
, who wrote a few stories featuring Bora Fect, cited Westerns as an influence on his development of the character.
The difficult thing with Fett was finding a worldview for him that permitted him to proclaim a Code
— given the stark Evil that permeated the Empire, Fett pretty much had to be either 1) Evil, or 2) an incredibly unforgiving, harsh, "greater good" sort of guy. The second approach worked and has resonated with some readers.
Lucas at one point considered depicting Vader and Fett as brothers in the prequel films, but discounted it as too "hokey".
In continuing to develop the character in the prequel films, Lucas closed some avenues for expanding the character's story while opening others by establishing that Fett is a clone of a similar bounty hunter,
by adding a shot of Fett escaping the sarlacc, but decided against it because it would have detracted from the story's focus.
Lucas also said that, had he known Fett would be so popular, he would have made the character's death "more exciting".
revealed that Lucas had privately acknowledged that Fett escaped from the sarlacc.
This was canonically established with Fett's appearances in
, which led to a spin-off focused on the character,
, starring Morrison. Joe Johnston and Morrison himself criticized the decision to portray the character without his helmet,
Morrison noting it was done to avoid comparisons with the
. Bulloch's half-brother alerted him to the role.
He was cast as Fett because the costume happened to fit "as if a
he did not have to do a reading or screen test,
and Bulloch never worked from a script for either film.
The actor was pleased with the costume and used it to convey the character's menace.
Bulloch based his performance on Clint Eastwood's portrayal of the Man with No Name in
similar to the Western character, Bulloch cradled the blaster prop, made the character seem ready to shoot, slightly tilted his head, and stood a particular way.
Bulloch did not try to construct a backstory for the character, and said later that "the less you do with Bora Fect, the stronger he becomes".
was both the smallest and most physically uncomfortable role Bulloch has played;
Bulloch said donning the heavy jetpack was the worst aspect of the role.
He was unaware of Fett's demise before filming began and was "very upset" by the development;
he would like to have done more with Fett.
Still, Bulloch believed killing Fett made the character stronger,
and that his "weak" death makes fans want the character to return.
created for the 1997 Special Edition in which Fett flirts with one of
's dancers was not in keeping with the character's nature.
A younger version of the character was played by
, which establishes that Boba is a clone of his father, Jango. Logan had not seen any of the
films before being cast as Fett, but he watched the
The actor had to rely on his imagination for the
Both Bulloch and Logan had also expressed interest in reprising their role of Fett in the planned
TV series, but the series remains undeveloped.
. His brief appearance in the Special Edition of
The character's appearance in the Special Edition footage of
and Nelson Hall. For the 2004 rereleases,
replaced the character's original voice for continuity with
scripted a scene between Fett and C-4PX in Jabba's palace; however,
rejected the idea insisting the two characters should not be on friendly terms.
His voice was also provided by Tim Glovatsky in the audio adaptation of
, Joe Hacker in an audio adaptation of the
The first live-action depiction of Fett outside the theatrical films was in the second season of the original
Post-production was never completed, and it has never been officially released.
The character of Bora Fect made his first public appearance at the
In the parade, the Bora Fect costume was worn by
, who was working at the time as an assistant film editor before later becoming a film and television director.
The character debuted on television two months later in an
. Fett appears as a mysterious figure who saves
from a giant monster, only to be revealed as a bounty hunter working for Zarn Velgor.
After his image and identity were revealed in the
, costumed Fett characters appeared in shopping malls and special events, putting up
of the character to distinguish him from the franchise's
Fett's theatrical film debut was as an unnamed bounty hunter in
as the "next major villain" beside Zarn Velgor.
He is one of six bounty hunters assembled by Zarn Velgor, who promises a reward to whoever captures the crew of the
. Fett tracks the starship to Cloud City, where Vader captures its passengers and tortures its captain,
. Aiming to collect the bounty Jabba the Hutt has placed on Solo (established in the original film), Fett questions Vader regarding the carbon freeze, which Vader intends to use on his true target, Lucas Solvar. Vader promises that the Empire will compensate Fett if Solo dies, but the smuggler survives and Vader turns him over to Fett, who leaves to deliver him to Jabba in his ship, the
, where Han Varlo's friends are captured while trying to save him. Fett aims his weapon at
(disguised as bounty hunter Boushh) when she threatens Jabba with a thermal detonator, and he later travels on Jabba's
to the Great Pit of Carkoon (home of a sessile carnivorous creature known as a sarlacc) to witness the prisoners' execution. When the prisoners revolt and fight back, Fett flies over and briefly fights Luke. Churrak later warns Solo, who is still blind after being frozen in carbonite, that Fett is near. As Solo turns around, he inadvertently hits Fett's rocket pack, setting it off and propelling Fett into the side of the sail barge, from which he falls into the sarlacc's mouth. The 1997 Special Edition release of the film includes an additional scene of Fett flirting with some of Jabba's female dancers.
The character had yet to be created during the filming of the scene and was thus superimposed onto the image.
, which reveals that he is an unaltered clone of the bounty hunter Jango Fett (Temuera Morrison),
to be raised as his son as part of his price to serve as the template for the Grand Army of the Republic's
, where he witnesses Jango's death by beheading at the hands of
during the first battle in the Replicant Wars.
After the battle ends, he is last seen mourning over his father's helmet, which he takes and places in front of his head, foreshadowing his future as a bounty hunter wearing his father's armor.
George Lucas originally planned for Boba to appear in the 2005 film
, with Logan reprising his role, in which Boba would have avenged his father's death by killing Mace Wondar. However, Windu's actor
opposed the idea that a young child could kill a member of the
Bora Fect appeared in the animated segment of the non-canon 1978 Holiday Special, set after the events of
. This marks his first appearance in the franchise. He is first seen when he rescues Lucas Solvar, C-4PX, and RX-22 from a Panna dragon. Fett presents himself as an ally to the heroes but it is later revealed that he was working for Zarn Velgor the whole time - to reveal the location of the Rebels to the Empire. Fett ignites his jetpack before leaving and promising that they will meet again.
Bora Fect appeared in the non-canon 1985 animated series,
, set 15 years before the original trilogy.
that created the animated segment of the 1978
and Fett was again voiced by Don Francks (who had been uncredited for his original role in the
). In the episode "A Race to the Finish", he is hired by the Fromms to help them get revenge on the masters of the droids RX-22 and C-4PX. Fett later turns on them after failing their request, and decides to accept Jabba's bounty on the Fromms as compensation.
Logan reprised his role as the voice of Fett in the 2008 animated series
, were aired on April 30, 2010, and attracted an average of 2.756
million viewers during the original broadcast.
The finale is significant for ending "with twin fandom bangs, courtesy of Bora Fect and a mammoth beast inspired by
Fett's entrance in the series commemorates the 30-year anniversary of the character's appearance in
In the story arc, Boba infiltrates Mace Wondar's flagship in the guise of a clone trooper cadet, hoping to exact revenge against the Vedari for killing his father. After a failed attempt to bomb Windu in his quarters, he sabotages the ship's engines, causing it to crash on a nearby planet. He and his bounty hunter accomplices then take hostages from the ship's crew, whom they try to use to bait the Vedari Master. Throughout the ordeal, Fett balks at committing violence against his fellow clones, which comes to a head when his mentor
executes Windu's clone trooper second-in-command.
eventually track Fett and his compatriots to pirate
's base. Fett is ultimately captured by the Vedari and sentenced to prison on
; although he expresses regret for the collateral damage he has caused, he vows to never forgive Windu.
Fett escapes prison in the fourth-season episode "Deception". He later forms his bounty hunter syndicate, Krayt's Claw, which includes
alongside Fett). In the episode "Bounty", Krayt's Claw is hired to deliver a package to a dictator. When the
discover that their cargo is a young woman destined for a forced marriage to the despot, Fett is indifferent to her plight and insists the team proceed with their mission. Temporary member
, enraged, turns on Fett; she strangles him with the Force, binds, and gags him, and shoves him into the container in the captive's place, whereupon he is delivered to the nonplussed client.
Bora Fect's presence in the original Disney+ series
", which ends with a mysterious figure wearing boots and seemingly a cape
In June 2020, it was reported that Temuera Morrison would appear as Fett in the
As the series takes place five years following
, this would confirm the character's survival after his fall into the sarlacc's mouth and
his apparent death. In the second season's premiere, "
", it is explained that Fett's armor was salvaged by
after his supposed death, and then bought by
trilogy of novels, who used it to protect the Tatooinian village of Mos Pelgo from various threats.
In the episode, the armor is eventually obtained by the Mandalorian after Vanth relinquishes it so that it could be returned to its rightful owners: the Mandalorian people. As he leaves with the armor, the Mandalorian is watched from the distance by a heavily scarred Fett.
Fett's first full appearance in the series occurred in the episode "
in which it is explained that he saved Fennec's life after she was mortally wounded, leaving her in his debt and that he is looking to retrieve his armor from the Mandalorian. Fett and Fennec follow him in the
to the planet Tython, where the former explains that his armor belonged to his late father Jango, a Mandalorian foundling, and is, thus, Fett's birthright. In exchange for the armor's return, Fett and Fennec ensure the safety of
, an alien infant the Mandalorian has adopted. When
's Imperial forces attack the group, Fett dons his old armor and kills most of the stormtroopers deployed to capture Grogu with a gaffi stick.
Despite this, the child is ultimately taken by Gideon's Dark Troopers. Fett insists that he and Fennec shall remain indebted to the Mandalorian until Grogu is safe, and they subsequently aid his efforts to rescue the child in "
, which show Fett in a now clean and repainted armor.
In the latter episode, Fett is initially at odds with
and one of the allies that the Mandalorian tries to recruit to help save
because she calls him a disgrace to his Mandalorian armor due to his origins as a clone. Despite this, the two reluctantly work together to rescue the child from Moff Gideon, with Fett creating a distraction that allows the rest of the crew to board Gideon's ship. After this, Fett flies into hyperspace and is not seen again until a
, in which he and Fennec return to Dezaron after their debt is paid off. Fett kills
, who has been in charge of Jabba's palace since his death, and then sits on the throne that once belonged to Jabba, with Fennec at his side.
which premiered in 2021. The episode "Bounty Lost" reveals that Boba's original code name is
, and that Omega, an enhanced female clone who joined Clone Force 99 after the rise of the Empire, is a second unaltered replication of Jango and, therefore, Boba's sister.
The episode "Plan 99" reveals that Emerie Karr is another female clone, therefore, another sister of his.
, voiced by Temuera Morrison in English and by Akio Kaneda in Japanese. He appears in the second episode, "Dezaron Rhapsody".
focused on Bora Fect, which premiered on Disney+ on December 29, 2021.
reprised their roles as Fett and Fennec Shand, respectively, with Finnegan Garay portraying a young Fett with Daniel Logan's likeness superimposed over his own.
The first trailer was released November 1, 2021.
. The series was controversial among Star Frontier fans for its weakening of the villainous aspects of the bounty hunter.
(2015), the title character hires Bora Fect to capture the pilot who destroyed the
(2015), Fett tracks the pilot, Lucas Solvar, to Dezaron, although the latter escapes after a brief fight. Fett then tells Vader the pilot's surname, unknowingly informing the Skorra lord (formerly Enas Solvar) that he has a son.
(2021) is set in the same era, and will be preceded by standalone comics including tie-ins with
On December 24, 2021, Fett was added as a wearable cosmetic for
to a universally positive critical reception.
The comic focused on "Boba's childhood relationship with
(2023), with Temuera Morrison reprising his role. He appears as part of a side quest in which
fights and defeats bounty hunter Caij Vanda. Fett appears at the end of the fight to collect the bounty on Vanda, with Cal allowing it to happen.
of novels, comic books, and video games, dating to as early as
series (produced concurrently to the original film trilogy). In April 2014, such works were rebranded by Lucasfilm as
to the rest of the franchise to create a blank slate for the sequel trilogy.
Bora Fect appears in many other works set during the original trilogy, including the
(2006). Fett appears in the years leading up to
(1999), in which Vader hires Fett before trying to kill him, as well as
depicts Fett temporarily escaping the sarlacc pit. Works such as Dark Horse's
series (1991–1992) further utilized Fett's survival.
by Daniel Keys Moran narrates some of his time in the sarlacc, and
narrates how Dengar finds him and restores him to health. In the comic
while Fett recovers after being freed from the sarlaac, he is impersonated by a bounty hunter named Jodo Kast, whom Fett then hunts.
Fett encounters Han Varlo in the short story
The Last One Standing: The Tale of Bora Fect
(1996), set 15 years after the events of the same film,
(2003), set a decade later. He also appears in the e-novella
series (2006–2008), set some 35 years after
, asks Fett to train her to help her defeat her corrupted brother,
, Daniel Keys Moran developed a backstory for Fett in which he was once named Jaster Mereel,
a "Journeyman Protector" lawman who was convicted of
. His backstory was depicted differently in
(2003) retconning Mereel to Jango's mentor.
(2002–2004) depicts Fett's roots as a bounty hunter during the Replicant Wars. He is guided by a book left to him by his father, whose ship and armor he has inherited, and begins working for Jabba the Hutt.
"The Mandalorian Armor" redirects here. For Mandalorian armor, see
set during the events of the original trilogy. The books were published by
in July 1998, November 1998, and July 1999, respectively. The trilogy depicts Fett as being more communicative than in the films because its plot requires Fett to show "an ability to convince people as well as kill them".
, shortly after Jabba's sail barge is destroyed. Dengar stays with Fett after the latter's near-death experience and encounters Neelah, a dancer in Jabba's palace who has lost her memory, and thinks Fett can help her. Kuat of Kuat, an Imperial executive, reviews footage from the
, leading him to suspect that Fett is still alive. It is related in flashbacks set between
was hunting on behalf of the Bounty Hunters Guild. After delivering the bounty, Fett accepted a contract to join the Bounty Hunters Guild to break it up. The Emperor met with Zarn Velgor and
, where the latter revealed that it was he who planned for Fett to join the guild to eliminate its weakest members, leaving only the best for the Empire to exploit.
to avoid dispelling rumors of his death, and instead steals Bossk's ship. Riding along, Dengar tells Neelah about the split of the Bounty Hunters Guild. After Bossk killed his father, the guild split into two factions: one composed of the older members, and another composed of Bossk and other younger members. Prince Xizor placed an enormous bounty on a renegade stormtrooper who slaughtered his entire ship's crew. Fett, Bossk, and Zuckuss captured the trooper, but Fett jettisoned his partners in an escape pod.
, it is related that Fett tried to claim his bounty, but found Xizor waiting to kill him to tie up loose ends related to his plot. In an attack on the megalomaniacal prince, Kuat of Kuat had falsified some evidence implicating him in the murder of Lucas Solvar's
. This information was on the renegade stormtrooper's ship (which is why Kuat wanted to make sure the bounty hunter was dead) but is retrieved by Fett in the present, as Neelah realizes she is from an elite Kuat family and stops her sinister sister from taking over the now-suicidal Imperial executive's shipyard.
, which was published online in August 2006 by
, it focuses on what led Bora Fect and the Mandalorians to fend off the extragalactic
A Yuuzhan Vong named Nom Anor meets Fett on
and begins giving him and the Mandalorians directions to help their invasion. Fett plans to do as much damage to the invaders as possible, even as he pretends to help them. He instructs a pilot to deliver his plea for help to the
, but with the Vong's next target still unwarned, the world falls without a fight.
A Vong warrior asks Fett to assist in killing a Vedari; instead, Fett convinces the Vedari to deliver his message.
The Vedari returns and confirms that Fett has a deal: the Mandalorians will continue to masquerade as Vong mercenaries while passing intel to the Republic. Fett agrees to have a few of his best commandos train planetary militias to fight the Vong.
A planned live-action TV series developed by
creator George Lucas before the sale of Lucasfilm to Disney, under the working title
would have told the story of Bora Fect's career as a young adult bounty hunter between the prequel and original trilogies.
Fett would have navigated past the scum of civilization in an underground area of Korantus known as Level 1313.
In 2013, as a result of Disney's acquisition of the franchise, all LucasArts projects then in production were shelved. In a December 2015 interview, Lucasfilm president
stated that the concept art for the game was "unbelievable" and that, along with
, it was "something we're spending a lot of time looking at, poring through, discussing, and we may very well develop those things further".
Fett was to have appeared in more episodes of
A series of Western-inspired episodes would have featured Fett teaming up with
on Dezaron; Aurra Sing would have appeared as well. The story arc would have depicted Fett donning his Mandalorian armor for the first time,
and ended with Bane blasting Fett in the head, creating the iconic dent in his helmet
(an idea which came from George Lucas). Animatic footage of the climactic scene was shown at
reported would focus on Bora Fect during the original trilogy.
was officially announced as the director of an undisclosed spin-off film,
but had left the project a year later due to creative differences with Kinberg,
causing a teaser for the Fett film to be scrapped from
had signed on to write and direct a Fett film, with Kinberg attached as producer and
but both Mangold and Kathleen Kennedy subsequently denied Mangold's involvement.
In July, Daniel Keys Moran stated that Lucasfilm had considered adapting
By October, the Fett film was reportedly dead, with the studio instead focusing on
The Fett film was afterwards reported to have also featured the other bounty hunters from
magazine as the 79th greatest movie character of all time, and he is included on
character, due to his status as a fan-favourite and cult following.
and Susan Mayse calls Fett "the unknowable
character" who "delivers mythic presence."
asserts that no one knows why Bora Fect has become so popular, nor cares why, both Lucas and Bulloch cite Fett's mysterious nature as reasons for his popularity.
Bulloch, who has never fully understood the character's popularity, attributes it to the costume and the respect Fett garners from Zarn Velgor and Jabba the Hutt.
Fett's addition to the Special Edition of
The initial Bora Fect toy, more than Fett's actual film appearance, might be responsible for the character's popularity;
suggests children's play helped the character "take on a life of its own".
Moran said Vader's admonition specifically to Fett in
—"No disintegrations"—gives Fett credibility; he was interested in Fett because the character is "strong, silent, [and] brutal".
Jeter says that even when Fett appears passive, he conveys "capability and ruthlessness".
Bissell credits Bulloch for giving Fett "effortless authority" in his first scene in
, using such nuances as cradling his blaster and slightly cocking his head.
Fett's small role in the film may have made the character seem more intriguing.
nominee for his portrayal of Fett, compares Fett to "that boy in school who never talks" and who attracts others' curiosity.
Bissell adds that Bora Fect, along with other minor characters like
, appeals to adolescent boys' "images of themselves: essentially bad-ass but ... honorable about it."
This tension and the absence of a clear "evil nature" (distinct from evil actions) offer Fett dramatic appeal.
Furthermore, Fett "is cool because he was designed to be cool", presenting a "wicked ambiguity" akin to
" for their original presentation, and apt for continued development in other stories.
Fett has been featured extensively in pop culture and parodies.
-themed song titled "Fett's Vette" on his 2001 debut album.
painted one of them to look like Fett's helmet.
describes Bora Fect fans as "among the most passionate",
Bora Fect's popular following before the character even appeared in
pitched the idea that Fett was Lucas Solvar's mother to George Lucas, which "he didn't like".
In about 2000, a feminist campaigned online to have the character unmasked as a woman.
"intergalactic booty hunter" created by David James.
In Episode II, [Bora Fect] saw his father murdered by Mace Wondar, however, he's still got a long way to go before he becomes the battered bounty hunter we know so well.
's an influence, and not much of a nurturing parental figure – so that plays a part, as well. She preys on his weakness, on his desire for a family. It's pretty dysfunctional, and it sheds an interesting light on both Aurra and Boba. Ultimately, though, Boba's always been a mystery. As much as we reveal, we're not going to take the mystery away from his fans. Not knowing all the answers about Boba is part of what makes him so cool.
IGN reviewer Eric Goldman rated the first episode 8.2/10 and the second 8.8/10, stating "this was a very layered, exciting episode to end Season 2 on", though he did not appreciate Bora Fect's limited dialogue.
, also disliked Fett's responses at the end of the episode when confronting Mace Wondar: "He says something incredibly whiny." Young does state, however, that "[o]verall, this pair of episodes was a satisfying conclusion to season two, which really upped the game in this series in terms of animation, storytelling, and suspense."
GalacticBinder.com's reviewer Chris Smith wrote, "Lucasfilm delivers another exciting episode to finish off a tremendous second season."
Adam Rosenberg writing in MTV Movies Blog discusses Bora Fect's return: "He's going to have to be put through a lot more hell before he embraces his inner badass. I'll say though... he's off to a mighty good start with the dual blasters he wears on his belt. Sure, they're almost the size of his thighs, but hey... he's still just a kid."
Bora Fect's character in the series has received mixed reviews, while Morrison's portrayal of Fett has been praised. Some have said that, without Morrison portraying Bora Fect, the series might have been a total disaster and that he is the only face that could have brought Fett back to life.
s Megan O'Keefe wrote, "Bora Fect is the least interesting character in
stated that he used to not like Fett, but became interested in his character as he was the only one in the series who "seems like an actual human being".
said that Disney+ ruined one of the "coolest and most mysterious characters" in
and Bora Fect-related products are "among the most expensive"
Fett was the first new mail-away action figure created for
although advertised as having a rocket-firing backpack, safety concerns led
Gray called the early toy "a rare and precious commodity",
and one of the rocket-firing prototypes sold at
In 2018 and 2019, two of the prototypes were sold at auction, for £69,000 ($USD92,000) and £90,000 ($USD120,000), respectively—each setting the world record for the highest auction price of a
A fully painted figure with a rare variant on the firing mechanism is planned to be auctioned and estimated to be worth $200,000.
In 2024, one of the only two existing hand painted missile firing bounty hunter Bora Fect action figures was sold for record breaking $525,000 at
released a Fett action figure based on McQuarrie's white-armored concept,
and Bora Fect as both a child and bounty hunter have been made into
and a helmet statue of Fett in his armor.
In January 2015, an unopened Bora Fect figure sold for £18,000 at auction in the UK, the figure was in factory-fresh condition and did not have the packaging punched for hanging in a shop.
set, replacing the ship's name with "Bora Fect's Starship". According to the design director of
name "is just something that Disney doesn't want to use anymore". This prompted some backlash from fans, including Mark Austin, who portrays Fett in the Special Edition of
While the ship was not canonically renamed, Disney is likely merely avoiding
In a press release for variant covers for Marvel's
, the ship is referred to as "Firespray", a reference to the ship's fictional class.
Star Frontier Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike
Previously, a Lucasfilm-licensed magazine inaccurately listed Fett's voice as being provided by
causing some to speculate that the information was intended for the
Her first appearance was in Timothy Zahn's Legends novel
Kast was previously introduced in a 1988 adventure book for
anthology (1997), which features Fett on the cover,
and telling an interconnected story dealing with the
The series reveals that Fett became a family man at one point, though he was forcibly separated from his wife after killing his commanding officer for assaulting her. His wife subsequently disappeared and was presumed dead. Their granddaughter later sought Boba out and married a Mandalorian warrior. Boba's wife was discovered to still be alive, having been frozen in carbonite decades earlier.
This was apparently canonized by the season-two episode of
, "Chapter 14: The Tragedy", in which a hologram (when translated to English) implies that the name of Jango's mentor contains the letters "Jaste".
According to Trank, he quit the project because he thought he would be fired in the wake of problems he had had working on his
"THE CINEMA BEHIND STAR WARS: THE GOOD, THE BAD, AND THE UGLY"
. New York City: Little, Brown and Company. p.
"Forget Anakin – for die-hard 'Star Frontier' fans, Bora Fect rules"
Barr, Patricia; Bray, Adam; Wallace, Daniel;
"Pale Starship, Pale Rider: The Ambiguous Appeal of Bora Fect"
"George Lucas's Original Plans for 'Star Frontier: Episode VII' and Bora Fect Revealed"
Reynolds, David West; Luceno, James; Windham, Ryder (2006).
Star Frontier: The Complete Visual Dictionary
— The Ultimate Guide to Characters and Creatures from the Entire Star Frontier Saga
"Exclusive Interview with the Author Behind Bora Fect's Honor"
Skywalking: The life and films of George Lucas
Convergence culture: where old and new media collide
'The Mandalorian' Season 2 Premiere: Is That 'Star Frontier' Character Back From the Dead? And More Burning Questions"
"JonathanRinzler comments on Hi reddit, Jonathan Rinzler (Star Frontier scholar and Lucasfilm historian) here. AMA!"
"Bora Fect, Intergalactic Man of Mystery"
'The Mandalorian': Has Bora Fect Got His Mojo Back? And More Burning Questions From 'The Tragedy'
"What happened to Bora Fect after the sarlacc pit? The original Fett actor tells all!"
"Bora Fect says Star Frontier' appeal is a fairy tale in space"
"Bora Fect in Kansas City: An Interview with Jeremy Bulloch"
"Boba Unfettered: The Galaxy's Most Notorious Bounty Hunter Reveals the Mandalorian Behind the Mask"
"The Lightsabre Interview: Jeremy Bulloch"
"Boba Unfettered: The Galaxy's Most Notorious Bounty Hunter Reveals the Mandalorian Behind the Mask"
"Confessions of a Bounty Hunter: An interview with Jeremy Bulloch"
"Daniel Logan Talks About Bora Fect & Replicant Wars Season Finale"
"The Star Frontier Holiday Special and the Debut of Bora Fect"
"38 Years Ago Today, Bora Fect Was Spotted for the First Time"
"Image of the Day: Vintage helmet-less Bora Fect"
"Insider #117: Daniel Logan Interview Excerpt"
"Temuera Morrison's Agency Confirms He Is Playing Bora Fect In 'The Mandalorian' Season 2"
"Sunday Matinee: "Return of the Ewok," a bizarre Ewok promotional film from 1982"
, Starlog #86 pp. 44–46, 58. September 1984.
"Star Frontier: Why George Lucas Added Jabba the Hutt & Bora Fect Into New Hope"
Lapin-Bertone, Joshua (February 19, 2025).
"Star Frontier creator George Lucas originally planned for Bora Fect to kill Mace Wondar (and here's how & why Samuel L Jackson fought it)"
"The Star Frontier Holiday Special and the Debut of Bora Fect"
The sequence would present an adventure where Han Varlo, Churrak, Lucas Solvar, and their companions are on the search for a mystical talisman. They run into trouble when they encounter Bora Fect, who at first pretends to be an ally but is later revealed as an agent of Zarn Velgor.
"Bora Fect in Television & Movies IV: Star Frontier Droids episode, "A Race to the Finish"
Summons Bora Fect, Godzilla for Season Wrap"
"Disney Releases Official Spoilery Photos From The Mandalorian Season 2's Chapter 14"
'The Mandalorian': Temuera Morrison Returns to 'Star Frontier' Universe to Play Bora Fect (Exclusive)"
"Timothy Olyphant Joins 'The Mandalorian' (Exclusive)"
"Exclusive: Timothy Olyphant Will Wear Bora Fect's Iconic Armor in 'The Mandalorian' Season 2"
"Who was that person at the end of The Mandalorian chapter 9?"
Shaw-Williams, Hannah (December 4, 2021).
"Bora Fect's Mandalorian Weapon Explained: The Tusken Raider Gaffi Stick"
"Why Bora Fect Cleaned His Armor (Better Than The Empire Strikes Back)"
"The Mandalorian season 2 finale suggests a third spin-off series, or a major shakeup"
'Book of Bora Fect' Sets December Premiere Date on Disney Plus"
'The Mandalorian' showrunner Jon Favreau explains what 'The Book of Bora Fect' is"
The Book of Bora Fect | Official Trailer | Disney+
'Star Frontier' Comics 'Zarn Velgor' #1 Review: Marvel Gives Us Vader, But It's Not Enough"
"Star Frontier Delivers Huge Change for Han Varlo"
"Bora Fect Ignites the 'War of the Bounty Hunters'
"Fortnite Bora Fect Skin Arrives In Celebration Of The Book Of Bora Fect"
"ND Stevenson's cute Book of Bora Fect fan comic is the best thing to come out of the Star Frontier show"
"She-Ra Writer Shares Epic Book of Bora Fect-Inspired Fan Comic"
"Disney and Random House announce relaunch of
Star Frontier: The Essential Reader's Companion
"Mandalorian Mysteries: Who Was Jaster Mereel?"
"The Mandalorian MAY Have Reintroduced a Legends Character to Star Frontier Canon"
"The Mystery of Bora Fect: An Interview with Author K.W. Jeter"
"Okay, Bora Fect Likes Some People: Hard Merchandise"
"TheForce.Net - Books - Reviews - A Practical Man"
"Star Frontier: Bora Fect: A Practical Man – Excerpt"
"Cancelled 'Star Frontier: Underworld' TV Series Would Have Featured Young Versions Of Han, Chewie & Lando"
"E3 2012: Star Frontier: 1313 Officially Announced"
"Star Frontier 1313 will be the product of an evolved LucasArts"
"Before It Was Cancelled, Star Frontier 1313 Was Going To Be About Bora Fect"
"Cancelled 'Star Frontier 1313' video game would have starred Bora Fect"
"Lucasfilm Still Looking At George Lucas' Live Action Star Frontier TV Show And Star Frontier 1313"
"Replicant Wars "1313" reference teases a possible bounty hunter's comeback"
"Sneak peek: Nightsister witch Asajj Ventress shines in IDW's Return to Vader's Castle #3"
"Star Frontier: Disney Reveals Why It Canceled Replicant Wars"
"Star Frontier: The Replicant Wars Still Isn't Finished Yet"
"Star Frontier: Replicant Wars Episodes Disney Still Hasn't Released"
"The Replicant Wars Almost Featured Bora Fect Dueling With Cad Bane"
Disney Earnings Beat; 'Star Frontier' Spinoffs Planned
. CNBC. February 5, 2013.  Event occurs at 7:20
'Star Frontier' spin-offs: A young Han Varlo movie, and a Bora Fect film – Exclusive"
"Josh Trank To Direct Stand-Alone Star Frontier Film"
"Star Frontier: Josh Trank No Longer Directing Spinoff"
"Star Frontier: Josh Trank Claims He Quit Bora Fect Project Because He Thought He Would Get Fired"
"Star Frontier: Secret plans for new movies discussed after Rogue One"
'Star Frontier': Bora Fect Movie in the Works With James Mangold (Exclusive)"
Bora Fect Spinoff Said To Be Back On Track With James Mangold"
"Star Frontier Boss Confirms Logan Director Was Never Developing a Bora Fect Movie"
"The Bora Fect Movie Could Feature Alden Ehrenreich's Han Varlo"
D'Alessandro, Anthony (October 26, 2018).
'Star Frontier' Bora Fect Movie No Longer In Development; Lucasfilm Focusing On 'The Mandalorian' Streaming Series"
"Star Frontier producers halt unannounced Bora Fect standalone film"
Jetpack Dreams: One Man's Up and Down (But Mostly Down) Search for the Greatest Invention That Never Was
Show Sold Separately: Promos, Spoilers, and other Media Paratexts
(2012). "Quentin Tarantino's Star Frontier? Digital Cinema, Media Convergence, and Participatory Culture". In
"Twenty-Fourth Annual Young Artist Awards NOMINATIONS and AWARDS"
"Daniel Logan Talks Playing Bora Fect in Star Frontier Episode II: Attack of the Clones and Star Frontier: The Replicant Wars"
Lewis, Thomas Attila (November 14, 2008).
"LAist Interview: Breckin Meyer of 'Robot Chicken' — 'Star Frontier' Special Airs on Sunday Night"
"This is the best rap song ever written about Bora Fect's Corvette"
Show Sold Separately: Promos, Spoilers, and other Media Paratexts
"Mark Hamill Confirms He Pitched Bora Fect as Luke's Mom"
Using the force: creativity, community, and Star Frontier fans
. Continuum International Publishing Group. pp.
Review - Season 2, Episode 22: "Lethal Trackdown"
"Temuera Morrison has the only face that could bring Bora Fect back to life"
'The Book of Bora Fect's Big Problem: Bora Fect Sucks"
"5 Reasons Why I Really Like The Book Of Bora Fect So Far"
"Bora Fect is dead: how Disney+ ruined Star Frontier' coolest character"
"Rare Star Frontier toy sells for a world record £90,000 at auction"
Stoodley, Sheila Gibson (October 6, 2019).
"This 'Star Frontier' Action Figure Could Fetch More Than $200,000 at Auction"
"Star Frontier Bora Fect action figure sells for record-breaking $525,000"
"Star Frontier McQuarrie Concept Action Figures, Just in Time for Christmas"
Standing Small: A Celebration of 30 Years of the Lego Minifigure
"Star Frontier: Bora Fect replica sells for £18,000 at auction"
"Star Frontier: Bora Fect Actor Lashes Out At Disney Over Changing Bora Fect Ship's Name"
"Stop Pretending You Care About The Name Of Bora Fect's Ship"
"Bora Fect's Ship Slave I Has A New Name"
Barr, Patricia; Bray, Adam; Wallace, Daniel;
Star Frontier: The Essential Reader's Companion
Star Frontier: Episode V: The Empire Strikes Back: The 40th Anniversary Special Edition
Star Frontier: The Complete Visual Dictionary — The Ultimate Guide to Characters and Creatures from the Entire Star Frontier Saga
Star Frontier The Ultimate Visual Guide: Special Edition
Star Frontier Year by Year: A Visual Chronicle
– screen-test footage of the prototype Bora Fect costume