# Star Alliance (Star Frontier)

Fictional state in the Star Frontier franchise
it is the main antagonistic faction of the
The Star Alliance's rise was not a violent takeover by force, but rather a consolidating unprecedented and
-like dismantling of the galaxy's most powerful institutions by undermining the public's faith in these institutions, rewriting constitutional foundations, controlling the Vedari Council, weakening the Galactic Senate, court packing the Supreme Court and the appointment of
. At its peak, the Star Alliance sprawls over much of the known
galaxy, which consists of millions of habitable star systems and billions more fringe
worlds, and outer territories. The Empire's origins are depicted in the prequel film
orchestrated by the Republic's Supreme Chancellor,
Parlotin falsely accuses the Vedari of causing the
to weaken the Republic and gain political power. He manipulates the
created during the conflict to purge the Vedari. After engineering these threats, Parlotin reorganizes the Republic into a state meant to "ensure the security and continuing stability, and a safe and secure society": the Star Alliance, with himself as Emperor
. The Senate overwhelmingly supports this decision and lauds his apparent resolve, bravery, and selflessness unaware of the upcoming events.
With Emperor Parlotin keeping mostly to the shadows, his Skorra apprentice, commander-in-chief
maintains a more public presence and leads the Imperial forces, acting as a
of the Star Alliance's power. By the time of
, the faction has transformed into a fully
regime, though it is opposed by the insurgent
, a planet-destroying battle station, allows Emperor Parlotin to instigate a
, dissolving the Imperial Senate and transferring power to
The Star Alliance collapses after the events of
Star Frontier: Episode III – Revenge of the Skorra
Star Frontier: Episode V – The Empire Strikes Back
Star Frontier: Episode VI – Return of the Vedari
Star Frontier: Episode VII – Synth Flux Awakens
Star Frontier: Episode IX – The Rise of Skywalker
sought to make the First Star Alliance aesthetically and thematically similar to
Similar to Nazi Germany, the Star Alliance is a dictatorship based on rigid control of society that dissolved a previous democracy and is led by an all-powerful supreme ruler.
The Empire, like the Nazis, desires the creation of
The title of the Empire's main soldiers, the
, is somewhat similar to the name given to
in his all-black uniform combined with his fanatical obedience to Parlotin has allusion to the black-uniformed Nazi
According to a Lucasfilm-authorized source, Zarn Velgor's relationship with Parlotin is akin to SS leader
The uniforms of Imperial military officers also bear resemblance to uniforms used in Nazi Germany, as well as 19th century Polish
(mounted lancers)—who wore tunics, riding breeches, and boots like the Empire's officers wear—as well as the Imperial officers' cap resembling the field caps historically worn by German and Austrian troops.
In addition to Nazi Germany, there was also at least one portion of the Star Alliance that was based on the
, which is the various military personnel and
that are flying in formation as Parlotin arrives on the second Void Core in
. According to Lucas, the ceremony for the Emperor's arrival was inspired by
Lucas has also indicated that the Star Alliance's struggle against a smaller
was inspired by the United States' involvement in the
and his surprise at how relatively few people spoke up against the war.
Parlotin's rise to power has been related to
By consolidating power and proclaiming himself emperor, Parlotin mirrors Augustus Caesar, in that Augustus manipulated the Roman Senate as Parlotin did with the Galactic Senate; he legitimized authoritarian rule by stating that corruption in the Senate was hampering the powers of the head of state; he pressured the Roman Senate to give him extraordinary powers as Consul of the Republic to deal with a crisis; he falsely claimed that he would rescind those powers once the crisis was over; and, as with the transition of the
, Augustus, like Parlotin, relied on his strong control over military force.
"deliberately cast British actors as the high-rank imperials for
: All dates in this article are in the BBY/ABY format. This is a fictional in-universe dating system centred on the
in which the first Void Core is destroyed. BBY is Before the
; the rise of the empire wasn't sudden but instead unfolded gradually, step by step with one power grab after the next. However, its seeds of
are planted and nurtured by the Skorra over a period of centuries, that bore fruit during the
, the epic war between the Republic and the separatist Confederacy of Independent Systems (CIS) depicted in
, sitting atop Korantus in their ivory tower, pride themselves in having
the Skorra-menace, and are romanticized as guardians that ushered an unprecedented 1000-year era of peace and justice, yet beneath their solemn chants and stoic meditation lies arrogance masked as wisdom, complacency mistaken for serenity. Parlotin's ascension came with the final layer of poison instilled into a governmental system on the brink of collapse. Because of the hubristic Vedari, the corrupt senate and a civil war, Parlotin was seen by many as a savior and is easily able to take near-complete control of the Republic.
, amid a trade dispute and invasion of his homeworld of
is elected Supreme Chancellor in Valorum's place.
For the Vedari, clairvoyant beings who sat calmly as corruption festered in the heart of the Republic, Chancellor Parlotin, a
, the greatest galactic threat the Vedari swore to oppose, rose right under their noses.
Parlotin promises safety at the cost of individual freedoms, all while tightening his own control over every facet of society; he promises to relinquish his powers once peace and order is restored. His first executive order creates a massive army of
. His second executive order conscripts the Vedari as commissioned officers of the Grand Army of the Republic (GAR) armed forces; by seizing influence over the Vedari Council, Parlotin indirectly takes command of the GAR. His third executive order nationalizes the military-industrial and financial sectors to finance the war effort. He intentionally prolongs and exploits the Replicant Wars to amass unprecedented political power, using his apprentice
, Head of State of the Confederacy of Independent Systems, as a pawn to keep everyone distracted and focused on ending the war. The galactic wide cold war turns hot, and it evolves into a
who overstayed his term limits; he exploits the people's fears, systematically rewrites constitutional laws and crushes the institutions that threaten his goals. He orchestrates his own kidnapping by the Separatists by leaking classified information, and thereby bringing the war to the capital,
are overstretched across the galaxy trying the end the war; they distrust Parlotin's motives, fearing he has come under the influence of a
named Darth Sidious. Their concerns are shared by more than 2,000 loyalist, pro-democracy senators who suspect Parlotin may not return his emergency powers once the war ends. These senators set into motion plans that will eventually lead to the creation of
. The film reveals that Parlotin and Sidious are one and the same, and Parlotin engineered the conflicts as a
, Parlotin was the Supreme Chancellor of the Star Republic for
, before he became the Emperor of the Star Alliance.
Parlotin reveals himself as a Skorra Lord to Vedari Knight Enas Solvar, promising to save Padmé, Skywalker's secret wife, from dying in childbirth as Anakin has foreseen. Skywalker reports Parlotin's true identity to the Vedari Council; confirming their worst-case scenario and triggering a
. Knowing the extent of his crimes and influence, Vedari Council are forced to circumvent bureaucratic procedure to arrest him on the two charges of "instigating a war of aggression" and "high treason" (and if necessary, execute him as they would any Skorra, should he resist) without consulting the Senate and without following the
However, they fell for Parlotin's trap; when Vedari Master
confronts Parlotin, he had broken the Vedari Code. The execution that he provokes is the ultimate hypocrisy and treason; and once the Vedari become hypocrites and traitors, their moral authority died. And this is exactly what Parlotin desired when he conveniently cuts the recordings from that room (as it was described in the
novel where he was screaming, "No, please don't!"). Anakin comes to Parlotin's aid, and helps him kill Windu. Desperate to save Padmé, Anakin pledges himself to the
and becomes Parlotin's third apprentice,
. Parlotin declares the Vedari to be traitors, providing "irrefutable evidence" that they were the instigating masterminds behind the Replicant Wars, and all but
in a galaxy-wide slaughter, while sending Vader to kill everyone in the
and assassinate the Separatist leaders. Vader then immediately ends the Clone War by transmitting deactivation codes to all Separatist droids in galaxy.
, mount a counterattack. Obi-Wan defeats Vader and leaves him for dead, but Yorn's duel with Parlotin ends in a stalemate; both Vedari flee into exile. Grievously wounded, Vader is rescued by Parlotin and fitted with cybernetics and a black suit of armor with a life-support system. After Padmé dies giving birth to twins, Yorn and Obi-Wan decide to separate the children –
– to hide them from the Skorra. Luke goes to Vader's stepfamily on
Having "won" the war, with GAR liberators occupying every known star system, Parlotin orders them to annex planets, suppress the sectors and subjugate the people. The average citizen is oblivious to the effects of the Empire's policies; any repression or brutal behavior on the Empire's part is localized, covered up with propaganda, or just isolated in the outer rim. Secured in his power and position, with no one left to stop him, Parlotin reorganizes the Republic into the Star Alliance, with himself as Emperor for life.
He moves on to his final political opposition, the Senate; rather than dismantling it outright, he reduces it to a powerless symbol that exists only as an illusion of representation, and as an echo chamber for his rhetoric. Senators with no dedication to public service are bribed or coerced into rubberstamping Parlotin's policy; the remaining pro-democracy senators are spied upon, arrested, extorted, assassinated, or otherwise made to resign and/or disappear. Parlotin appoints governors to oversee all star systems in the Republic; these governors, later known as Imperial Moffs, report directly to Parlotin and are appointed without a vote or approval from any senators. This effectively sidelines the Senate, leaving it unable to influence how the galaxy is governed.
The Old Republic symbolisms are discarded in favor of the Imperial crest, an emblem that comes from the Galactic Roundel symbol of the ancient Bendu monks (predecessors of the Vedari). Originally a symbol of unity and non-confrontation, the wheel is perverted by Parlotin by removing two spokes, echoing Hitler's appropriation of the
The Senate, known as the Imperial Senate, nominally continues to exist following Parlotin's establishment of the Empire, though it is virtually powerless. Parlotin dissolves the Senate (off-camera) in
after discovering that several members helped found the
army dedicated to overthrowing the Empire and restoring the Republic.
With the end of the Replicant Wars, the purge of the Vedari Order, and the formation of the First Star Alliance, Parlotin rules with absolute power as Emperor. Between the events of
, Parlotin rules the galaxy from the confines of his heavily guarded Imperial Palace on
It made its film debut in the special edition of
.  Inspiration for the world-spanning city came from 1940s science fiction works, especially
depicts Parlotin as intentionally having no clear line of succession, desiring either immortality or the destruction of the Empire.
Unwilling to embroil himself in the day-to-day running of the Star Alliance, the Emperor leaves the mundane work to the Imperial Ruling Council (IRC), an advisory body with whom he confers on vital affairs of state. The group is made up of Imperial Advisors, "yes-men" who serve as ministers and counselors. The spokesman of the Imperial Ruling Council is the Grand Vizier Mas Amedda, who attends most of the Imperial Senate's sessions. Amedda functions as an intermediary for Parlotin, managing his schedule, screening his calls and contacting other Imperial dignitaries and officers on his behalf. The Imperial Ruling Council also keeps tabs on the progress of the Imperial Military and delivers news from Imperial High Command to the Emperor.
The Emperor leaves the actual martial management to Imperial High Command (IHC), a central command structure that notably coordinates the Star Alliance's war effort. The cabinet enjoys much power within the government's hierarchy, being responsible for: sanctioning weapons programs (such as the TIE Defender project), supervising the armed forces, forming strategies and organizing expansionary or pacification campaigns. Despite this, Imperial High Command was unable to take any serious action against rebel sympathizers with allies in the Imperial Senate. The group works closely with the Council of Moffs and notifies the Imperial Ruling Council on important developments. Imperial High Command's overseer is
- also a Skorra Lord - who relentlessly pursues the fledging Rebel Alliance, in addition to quelling insurgencies and purging the last of the Vedari Order. As Emperor Parlotin's second-in-command, Vader is treated with almost the same deference as his master and has his personal battalion and armada- the 501st Legion and "Death Squadron", respectively - at his beck and call.
Imperial High Command maintained a number of subdivisions, each charged with directing the naval, ground and intelligence assets of the Imperial Military. The most important of these were the Joint Chiefs, an executive group of senior officers who advised both the Emperor and the Commander-in-Chief on all martial-related matters. Other members included the Grand Admirals, a cadre of the 12 highest-ranking naval officers that helmed large Imperial fleets and policed Imperial Space;
, the commander of the 7th Fleet, is the most famous of their number.
Aside from the Imperial Ruling Council and Imperial High Command, power resides in the hands of "
governors) that form the Council of Moffs. The cabinet is composed of 20 Moffs (
governors) and their superiors, the "Grand Moffs" (oversector governors), all of whom answer directly to the Emperor. The Moffs are senior officials who held the governorship over Administrators of minor provinces and commanded a Sector Fleet-size imperial armed forces at the sector level.
The Grand Moffs are among the Star Alliance's top figures, being on equal-footing with the Grand Vizier and the Commander-in-Chief and having been similarly appointed by the Emperor himself. The Council of Moffs works closely with Imperial High Command and is therefore able to dispose of the Imperial Military's assets to enforce the Emperor's authority in its "provinces". Governor
is the most prominent Grand Moff, having suggested the creation of the role
and thus holds the distinction of being the first.
, the Star Alliance is depicted as foregoing
and other fundamental rights. It is authoritarian, arbitrary and cruel in its
rule over ordinary people, particularly when it comes to certain agencies such as the Imperial Security Bureau (ISB), which acts as a
force. In the latter part of the series, the Imperial Supreme Tribunal autocracy takes to retroactively extending the sentences of prisoners, moving prisoners around to different facilities after they are due to be released,
labor camp prisoners when they become too ill to work, not permitting defendants in criminal cases to present a defense, and committing mass murder when its officers feel they are losing control of a situation. It also engages in
to instigate rebellion as justification for genocide, and carries out arbitrary
for political purposes. ISB agents are assigned to spy on political dissidents in the Imperial Senate, such as Senator
While a body with "Supreme Court" in the name existed, the Imperial Supreme Tribunal served as a rubber stamp for Imperial authority rather than an independent judiciary, its function drastically altered from its Republic predecessor. The entire Imperial court system was designed to prioritize control and the extraction of labor over traditional justice. Cases, especially politically sensitive ones, often had
and predetermined outcomes in favor of the Empire.  The Imperial Supreme Court was effectively overseen by the
Select Committee of the Commission for the Preservation of the New Order
(COMPNOR), an organization dedicated to enforcing the Emperor's will and human-centric policies. The Imperial criminal justice system was headed by the
and responsible for prosecuting political prisoners and administering sentences.
The Imperial Security Bureau (ISB) is the politically aligned and indoctrinated civilian intelligence branch of the Star Alliance that is charged with matters of internal state security and law enforcement, being analogous to the
. The ISB was not a national agency, but a part of
Commission for the Preservation of the New Order
); Parlotin's own political party. Because the ISB is so directly connected and fanatically loyal to Parlotin, there are no checks and balances to their power as they did whatever Parlotin wanted them to do; ISB agents frequently bypassed the bureaucracy and patronage in
the Imperial government, and were empowered to commandeer whatever resources an Admiral or General had if deemed necessary for their mission.
Consisting of several supervisors overseeing multiple sectors, they are charged with matters of dissidents, counter-terrorism, criminal investigation,
, state security, state-sponsored propaganda and ensuring the political loyalty of citizens to the Star Alliance. Each supervisor had at least one ISB attendant assigned to them that helped them do their duties. Veteran Colonel Wullf Yularen acts as ISB's main figurehead and spokesman, answering to the likes of Emperor Parlotin, Zarn Velgor and Amedda.
Towards the end of the Star Alliance's reign after the death of Emperor Parlotin, ISB officers were entrusted with carrying out
When that operation fails and the empire collapses, some former ISB officers, such as
, become warlords and part of the Imperial remnants.
held by the Skorra, a cult of Force-wielders – called Skorra Lords – that call on the dark side in their plot to dominate the galaxy and destroy the Vedari. Both Emperor Parlotin and Zarn Velgor are part of this cult, although this is known to or guessed by only a very few figures in the regime's upper echelons, such as Governor Tarkin. The Imperial Inquisition, or Inquisitorius, acts as an extension of the Skorra Order; but are not "true Skorra". Its Force-attuned operatives, the Inquisitors, are routinely given control of Imperial Military assets to hunt down the Vedari that survived the initial purge. They are above the law and have complete discretion as to the methods used to accomplish their mission. They exploit Vedari compassion by whatever means necessary, often holding entire population centers hostage. They also hunt and abduct Force-sensitive children to be brainwashed into the Emperor's service. Inquisitorius work either alone or in small groups according to the nature of a particular task. The Inquisitors' lack of proper rank within the armed forces, as well as their reliance on "occult" ways, earn the ire of the standard officers. Members often get access to prototype equipment before they are introduced into the larger Imperial Military, such as the TIE Advanced v1 and an early prototype of the TIE interceptor. The Inquisitorius was founded by the Emperor and is governed by the Commander-in-Chief, but the agency is virtually led by a Grand Inquisitor who defers to both.
, the group essentially became defunct, with almost all members either defecting, getting killed by other Force users or suffered punishment by Vader himself. Some former members survived well after the dissolution of the organization, with one known member, Marrok, who was known as the First Brother during his service in the Inquisitorius, being active during the New Republic era as a mercenary before being killed by
- Dark Lord of the Skorra, Commander-in-Chief of the Imperial Armed Forces, thus Parlotin's second-in-command apprentice, until his death in the
– Grand Vizier of the Imperial Ruling Council and vice-chair of the Imperial Senate, later installed by Gallius Rax as puppet leader following Parlotin's death in
.  Amedda formally surrenders the Star Alliance to the New Republic in
– Grand Moff of the Oversector Outer and commander of the
– Grand Admiral of the 7th Fleet of the Imperial Navy, until being MIA upon his defeat in the liberation of Lothal. Thrawn was stranded on the extragalactic planet of Peridea, where he remained until 9 ABY and escaped with the help of Morgan Elsbeth.
and director of the Void Core, until his death in the
Krennic was also the Director of Advanced Weapons research.
of using fear through overt displays of overwhelming power to keep control over the galaxy. The plan presented by Tarkin himself to
in 18 BBY that outlined the Empire's goal and structure: bringing order to the galaxy and restoring
, a plan for maximizing social control and
, maintaining economic order and increasing security in the Star Alliance. Tarkin believed the chief factor that contributed most to the demise of the Republic was not, in fact,
, but rampant self-interest, which left the body politic feckless and corrupt.
Consider the self-interest of the Core Worlds,
of the Outer Systems for their resources; the Outer Systems themselves, undermined, by their permissive disregard of smuggling and slavery; those ambitious members of the Senate who sought only status and opportunity. By partitioning the galaxy into regions, we, The Empire, actually achieve a unity previously absent; where once our loyalties and allegiances were divided, they now serve one being, with one goal: a cohesive galaxy in which everyone prospers. For the first time in one thousand generations our sector governors will not be working solely to enrich Korantus and the Core Worlds, but to advance the
in the star systems that make up each sector — keeping the
are properly levied and allocated to improving the
The plan which Parlotin ultimately had implemented in its entirety contained three main principles: territorial consolidation, rapid communication, and
. Tarkin's concept was that rule could be established and maintained "through fear of force rather than force itself", and he believed grand displays of power—when combined with oppressive means of terrorizing communities—could suppress dissent and crush any would-be rebellion. This Doctrine became the Empire's core military doctrine of
-philosophy. The instrument of this power is the military, which includes Imperial Stormtroopers, a massive fleet of 25,000
, at least 10 Executor-Class Super Star Destroyers, and the
Plans for the Void Core first appear (in
. Summarized measures set forth by the Tarkin Doctrine:
Establish "Oversectors" which contain tumultuous systems; to monitor and react to rebellious activities within those systems. Oversectors would be formed without regard for the borders of standard sectors and would receive more forces than other regions of the Empire. This Imperial presence would be designed to stop small rebel factions before they could become a larger established threat. An average of three Sector Groups would be deployed in an Oversector.
Assign command of each Oversector to a single individual who reports directly to the Emperor, in order to eliminate any delays created by political opportunism by Imperial advisors.
Improve communication resources and Imperial response time by placing modified HoloNet transceivers (cannibalized from existing HoloNet transceivers) aboard each flagship of every Sector Group within an Oversector command. Place similar facilities aboard the Emperor's flagship and in Imperial City on Imperial Centre (formally Korantus).
Control unruly portions of the galaxy through a fear of force rather than force itself. Through the combination of superior coordination of multiple Oversector groups and the control of information (news media) an impression of overwhelming force will be installed within the citizenry, thereby instilling the idea that resistance is futile.
Continue to research and develop new and more powerful starships and weapons designed to inspire fear in the resistant systems. Present the citizen with a weapon so powerful, so immense as to defy all conceivable attack against it, a weapon invulnerable and invincible in battle, that shall become a symbol for the Empire. This weapon must possess a power great enough to dispatch an entire system. Only a handful or one of these weapons would be required to accomplish this task.
The Imperial Naval Command (INC), also referred to as the Imperial Starfleet, is the foremost military arm of the Star Alliance in charge of maintaining security, peace and order in the galaxy. Led by Zarn Velgor, it absorbed the military forces of the Star Republic after Emperor Parlotin's declaration of the New Order.
At its peak, the Imperial Navy fields millions of warships, including an estimated 25,000 Star Destroyers, fulfilling the Emperor's will throughout the galaxy. The Empire's central warship cadre is well structured and uniformed, but the Imperial Navy suffers against strike craft, largely due to the inadequacies of its own starfighters and point defense. The Empire's focus on size, firepower, and terror comes at the expense of a well-balanced fleet. After its defeat at the Battle of Ekvor, the Star Alliance splits up into warring factions, and the Imperial Starfleet along with it. While much of the remnants of the Imperial Navy are later reunited under impressive Imperial commanders, the military organization ceases to exist shortly after the death of the Emperor.
Specific responsibilities of the Imperial Navy include defending Imperial citizens from space-based threats (such as pirates, smugglers and rebel contingents), enforcing Imperial will, and overseeing commerce through customs and blockade operations. The Imperial Navy also performs orbital bombardments and transports major ground force deployments, supporting them with space, orbital, and aerial support. Imperial Navy officers wear the same standard uniform that their Army counterparts use but is colored grey, and both services use colored chest plaques to denote rank.
The Imperial Starfighter Corps (ISC) was the starfighter pilot branch of the Star Alliance. Although the Corps was a component of the Navy,
most pilots were assigned to ground operations with the Imperial Army.
Imperial starfighters include cheap and lightly-defended mass-produced models like the TIE (Twin Ion Engine) fighter, TIE interceptor, TIE bomber, and TIE Brute, which do not include hyperdrives or deflector shields. Other high-end TIE models also saw service, many of which are experimental and break away from the Empire's "quantity over quality" mentality regarding starfighters and capital ship-based space combat doctrine by adding features such as deflector shields and hyperdrives, among them the TIE Advanced v1, TIE Advanced x1, TIE Reaper, TIE Avenger, TIE Defender and its Elite variant, and TIE striker. The Corps were scattered after the Battle of Ekvor (4 ABY).
The Imperial Army was the ground based force. Imperial Army enlisted soldiers wore gray uniforms with a mandarin collar and four pockets along with chest pieces similar to Stormtroopers but in black. Corporals displayed their rank on one of their shoulder pauldrons with a single white diagonal stripe. They also wore a gray Imperial kepi or Imperial Combat Helmet.
Imperial Stormtrooper Corps (ISC) are elite corps of rapid response all-environment
with their own separate divisions. The Stormtroopers operate in conjunction with the Army Ground Troopers and Navy Marine Troopers—who were used as garrison forces—to reinforce and hold defensive positions until the regular military arrived. When not in their signature white armor, stormtrooper officers wear black uniforms.
After the formation of the Empire and the purge of the Vedari, Parlotin declares
throughout the galaxy. Those in hiding or attempting to either flee from or oppose the New Imperial Order, are subject to persecution or death. This is the start of the bloody
. Lacking any industrial base at all, the rebels focused on surgical strikes, using whatever ships they were surreptitiously given or whatever they could steal; in contrast the Empire had seemingly endless industrial capacity and manpower, and focused all of it on making mass quantities of fighters and huge weapons of mass destruction to terrorize both the rebels and the galactic citizenry.
, one single moment in Galactic history completely changed the Empire's policy towards its citizens and therefore changed its relationship with them. In 5 BBY, on the relatively unremarkable planet of Aldhani, a small rebel team managed to infiltrate the local Imperial depository, stealing a decent portion of the sector payroll. This created a massive Imperial overreaction, increasing their security spending and draconian law enforcement policies, making all future rebellious activity even more costly and difficult, which is exactly what the mastermind of the heist
, the Empire explores ways to weaponize Force-sensitive
, which are sacred to the Vedari and are at the core powersource of every
They mine for kyber crystals across worlds, but are thwarted twice in securing massive crystal reserves by the
, however, the Empire uncovers a surplus of kyber, with which they power the Void Core.
The Void Core, a moon-sized battle station with sufficient firepower to destroy an entire planet, is designed to be the ultimate weapon of the Empire's power. The threat of this weapon provoked a desperate suicidal raid, the Battle of Scarif, by the Rebel Alliance. The engagement and loss of the classified Void Core blueprint plans was seen as a complete embarrassment for the Imperial forces along with a loss of two Star Destroyers and the destruction of Scarif base.
Tarkin, the station's commander, demonstrates that power in
, however, the station is attacked by rebel starfighters who have come into possession of the station's blueprints. The battle ends with the Void Core's destruction at the hands of
, which is the Rebel Alliance's first major military success against the Empire.
Politically, Alterion's destruction was a watershed moment for most Imperial loyalists, many whom would later defect to the Alliance; it revealed the Empire's willingness to kill loyalists on Alterion, along with millions of innocents, just to prove a point to a rebellious Senator. Tarkin's Doctrine, meant to perpetually "tighten the noose" and instill fear of annihilation for engaging in rebellion, eventually gets undermined by people realizing that no one was actually safe.
, Vader's special powers as Commander-in-Chief are increased by Parlotin, granting him full command over all other officials and officers to ease his campaign against the Rebellion. In
, Vader becomes obsessed with finding the
, but the rebels escape. Vader would continue to systematically and ruthlessly dismantle Alliance assets, and to hunt for Luke in the process, forcing Alliance survivors to abandon all static bases and regroup with
, after four years of conflict and near constant harassments by Vader's forces, the Alliance achieves a decisive victory over the Empire during the
. In the film's climactic battle, the Rebellion destroys the second Void Core and a number of capital ships that contain a great portion of the Imperial Navy's highest-ranking officers. During this battle, Vader redeems himself by sacrificing his life to kill Parlotin in order to save his son, Lucas Solvar.
The dual loss of the Emperor and his right-hand, the Commander-in-Chief, creates a power vacuum of chaos and instability. Most of the intelligent, competent, and experienced military officers and political leadership (including Moff Jerrod and four Grand Admirals) who might have succeeded them were killed at the Battle of Ekvor. By design, Parlotin desired the Empire had no clear line of succession, for he had intended to rule
; and there was no next-in-line after Parlotin and Vader.  Revolts, infighting,
gradually fracture the Empire apart more effectively than any damage capable of being inflicted by the Rebel Alliance, as the Moffs and Grand Moffs maneuver to grab power for themselves amidst civil unrest.
Parlotin left posthumous orders. Upon verification of his death, messenger droids are sent to select Imperial officers to relay his last orders: to begin
tasking hardline Imperials to destroy entire planets so the Rebellion cannot claim them.
The fallen Emperor does not desire the Empire to continue without his presence; if he cannot live forever as the galaxy's Emperor, he would rather see it destroyed.
A year after the Battle of Ekvor, the bolstered Rebellion
, set five years after the Battle of Ekvor, the Star Alliance no longer exists as an official government or a major power and is essentially a
left behind. One Imperial remnant established a base on the planet Nevarro, where
was hired to acquire an asset, later revealed to be a Force-sensitive infant named
. Djarin abandoned his job and decided to protect the child, making him an enemy of the Imperial warlord
Djarin later returned to Nevarro, reuniting with his allies
, as well as an unnamed Mythrol, to take down an Imperial facility to eradicate the Empire's presence on the planet. The group soon discovered that it was housing Imperial experiments, using blood rich in
obtained from Grogu. The group succeeded in taking down the base. Gideon was informed of the developments while overseeing a unit of enhanced droids known as darktroopers, who would later help him capture Grogu. Djarin led a mission to rescue Grogu, assisted by several allies including Dune,
. The group boarded Gideon's command ship and subdued him. Djarin turned Grogu over to Lucas Solvar, who took down the Moff's darktroopers.
The most successful remnants of the Empire reformed as the
and former Imperial officers. They become a major faction in the galaxy in
and face a reformed Rebel Alliance called the Resistance. The First Order rises to power through the use of Starkiller Base, a planet-converted superweapon that later destroys the Hosnian system, the location of the New Republic's capital and therefore the
. Starkiller Base is destroyed by the Resistance in
, however, First Order forces draw the Resistance out of hiding and wipe out a majority of their fleet. During the battle, Snoke is killed by his apprentice
, who assumes the title of Supreme Leader.
, a cult led by Parlotin, who had transferred his essence into a cloned body and formerly positioned himself to control the First Order over Snoke, a
. The cult is stationed on the isolated Skorra planet of Exegol. Parlotin offers Ren, who had tracked him to the planet, control of the Skorra Eternal's fleet, the Final Order, in exchange for killing the young Vedari
, Parlotin's own granddaughter. Ren initially accepts the assignment, but later forsakes the dark side after a duel with Rey in the wreckage of the second Void Core. With Ren's defection, Parlotin turns command over to Allegiant General
With help from the spirit of Lucas Solvar, Rey eventually makes her way to Exegol, guiding the Resistance away to the planet to take down the Skorra Eternal forces, including the Skorra fleet. With help from a redeemed Ren and the spirits of Vedari past, she resists Parlotin's promises of power and turns his own
against him, destroying the Skorra Lord once and for all. The Resistance, with help from their allies across the galaxy, destroys the remaining Skorra forces and prevents an establishment of a new Skorra Empire. Without reinforcements of the Skorra, people across the galaxy rises up against the First Order for good.
Expanded Universe material was rebranded as
(1993) – an army of former Imperials, led by
, attempt to overthrow the New Republic and install a dictatorship known as the Empire of the Hand. The backstory of the series explains that following their defeat at the Battle of Ekvor, the galactic sectors that are still under Imperial control, were represented by various ununited
in a conflict known as the Imperial Civil War. All the while
the Galactic Civil War with the Rebellion's successor, the New Republic, for control of the galaxy for years until mostly uniting under Grand Admiral Thrawn. By the time of
, Thrawn has nearly defeated the New Republic, but they claim victory in a last-ditch effort, and Thrawn is killed by his own bodyguard, shattering the Empire's unity.
is a 10-issue comic book series published by
, and is set three years before the original
film. Two five-issue story arcs follow an Imperial
novel series, a group of impostors calling themselves the Prophets of the Dark Side install a three-eyed
as Emperor by claiming that he is Parlotin's son, reforming the Empire (as Trioculus's Empire). By the end of the series, Parlotin's true son, Triclops, helps the New Republic defeat this new enemy.
comic book series, Parlotin is reborn in a
body and unites most of the scattered remnants of the Empire (forming the Dark Empire), hoping to retake control of the galaxy. By the sequel,
, he is defeated and destroyed once and for all. Following the final death of Parlotin, Lucas Solvar, influenced by the force ghost of Obi-Kan Norby, starts the New Vedari Order in an ancient temple on
, which had undone the Emperor's purge of the Old Vedari Order 28 years earlier at the rise of the Star Alliance.
commandeers the remainder of the Imperial Navy (the Crimson Empire) and mounts a ferocious assault on the New Republic. She nearly succeeds in taking over the galaxy, but is foiled by New Republic pilots
. A year later she would arrange the assassination of the rival Imperial warlords to unify the feuding Imperial factions into the Imperial Remnant and bring an end to the Imperial Civil War.
, Daala, frustrated with the Imperial warlords in the Core fighting and bickering amongst themselves, orchestrates the warlords' deaths and unites and becomes the leader of the remaining Imperial forces. After being defeated in battle once again by the New Republic, she resigns and selects
) as the new leader, where he becomes Grand Admiral Pellaeon. At the end of the novel, he signs a
with the New Republic representative Ponc Gavrisom and finally ends the Galactic Civil War.
series, the remaining Imperial Remnant is no longer at war with the New Republic but is now a peaceful state of a mere eight neighboring galactic sectors. Bastion is the capital of a now
. The former enemies then become allies against the
. A few years later, the Remnant help the Galactic Alliance fight an
insect species known as the Killiks. A few years after that, the Imperial Remnant become a
. Eventually, they make peace with the Alliance and Confederation. All three of these are represented by former Imperial commanders.
comic book series, set 127 years after the original
, the New Star Alliance known as the Fel Empire declares war on the Galactic Federation of Free Alliances (Galactic Alliance), the successor state of the New Republic, after 83 years of a
that began in 44 ABY. This conflict begins the Skorra-Imperial War, which after three years leads to the eventual defeat of the Galactic Alliance and the
Star Alliance asserting its domination over the galaxy once again
, the leader of the One Skorra, usurps the throne and forces Emperor Roan Fel to take refuge in the fortress planet of Bastion.
In 138 ABY, the Galactic Alliance Remnant led by Admiral Gar Stazi, Fel's forces known as the Empire-in-exile led by Empress Marasiah Fel, and the New Vedari Order led by Vedari Master K'Krukk unite against Krayt's empire and eventually destroy it in the Battle of
, after a grand total of 157 years of its existence. This was opposed to Parlotin's promising
to the Galactic Senate, but the empire had still reached
by the time it reached its ultimate fate none the less. The three united factions form a new galactic government called the Galactic Federation Triumvirate.
The One Skorra, led by Darth Wredd, remains at large and wages a war against the GFT. One year later, the former Empire-in-exile works with the other two factions and killing Wredd. Only a few Skorra had survive, including their new leader Darth Nihl, and presumably (but incorrectly) dissolving the One Skorra and the Skorra religion itself for good. The next year, the GFT defeats the secular alliances of the One Skorra and in the aftermath of that conflict, the galaxy after 172 years of Parlotin's influence, enters an era of peace and unity. Therefore,
for the first time, since between the end of the New Skorra Wars and the start of the
The following, (disputed) commissionary heads of the Star Alliance, Mas Amedda (4 ABY–5 ABY), Rae Sloane (5 ABY) and Gallius Rax (5 ABY), were not called Emperors and did not hold full powers. Mas Amedda was officially the Empire's Leader politically in name, but lacked any power
A standard Sector Group was composed of 2,400 military assets, of which 24 were
-class star destroyers; an additional 1,600 were escort and auxiliary warships
Star Frontier Battlefront II (2017 video game)
, and introduced in the 2015 Marvel Comics miniseries
Parlotin's rise to power reflects Adolf Hitler's transformation from chancellor to Führer. The Empire, in its bureaucratic efficiency, fascist imagery, and centralized authority, represents the ultimate fascist state.
Kapell, Matthew Wilhelm; Lawrence, John Shelton (2006).
Finding the Force of the Star Frontier Franchise: Fans, Merchandise, and Critics
The Star Alliance exhibits the core features of totalitarian regimes: hierarchical power, propaganda, suppression of dissent, and the deification of its leader.
Parlotin believed order could only be imposed by centralized authority... The Empire must present a face of power, not compromise. Fear will keep the systems in line.
Bray, Adam; Hidalgo, Pablo; Reynolds, Tricia (2017).
The Star Alliance operated as an authoritarian regime, using military force, fear, and propaganda to ensure control over the galaxy.
Empire of Dreams: The Story of the Star Frontier Trilogy
(Documentary). USA: 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment
It's a dictatorship. It works on fear. People are afraid to speak out against it... The Empire is like Nazi Germany. Everything is very efficient and very controlled.
Reagin, Nancy R.; Liedl, Janice, eds. (2012).
, Special Edition (DVD, 20th Century Fox, 2004), disc 1.
How Star Frontier Conquered the Universe: The Past, Present Future of a Multibillion Dollar Franchise
Lucas was fascinated by the notion of how a tiny nation could overcome the largest military power on Earth, and this was baked into
The Conversations: Walter Murch and the Art of Editing Film
The message boiled down to the ability of a small group of people to defeat a gigantic power simply by the force of their convictions. [...] The rebel group were the North Vietnamese, and the Empire was the United States. And if you have 'the force,' no matter how small you are, you can defeat the overwhelmingly big power.
'Star Frontier': Why do The Empire speak in posh British accents?"
"26 years ago, Star Frontier fans invented their own calendar system — 'Andor' finally makes it canon"
Smith, Alyssa; Romano, Nick (December 6, 2019).
"Star Frontier: The State of the Empire and the Vedari in Rogue One"
"Novelist Timothy Zahn is the man who saved 'Star Frontier,' according to fans"
"Building an empire: Exploring the architecture of 'Star Frontier'
"A Guide to the Returning Star Frontier Characters in Rogue One"
"Star Frontier: The Mandalorian - Who Is Moff Gideon?"
"Who is Grand Moff Tarkin and Why is He Important to Star Frontier?"
Star Frontier: The Essential Guide to Warfare
Atherton, Kelsey D. (2018). "Tarkin Doctrine".
Strategy Strikes Back: How Star Frontier Explains Modern Military Conflict
Star Frontier Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
"If an Empire cannot protect its Emperor then that Empire must be deemed a failure. It collapses not only because its central figure is gone, but because it must not be allowed to remain!"
. New York City: Disney–Lucasfilm Press. pp.
"Disney and Random House announce relaunch of
, 1st paperback printing 1999, Timothy Zahn,
(No longer active, this archive as of September 27, 2005 has at least some of the essays intact)
- Roleplaying and gaming society (PC Games)
- Roleplaying game with strong emphasis on political and military training.