# Lucas Solvar

This article is about the Star Frontier character. For the rapper Luke Skyywalker, see
and its novelization (1976). He is the main
. Raised as a moisture farmer on the desert planet
and becomes a pivotal figure in its struggle against the
, and eventually confronts his father, the
portrays Luke in all the films of the original and sequel trilogies, as well as in the television series
He was also nominated for the award for his performance in
Luke also appears in novels, comics, and video games.
considered various characterizations for the protagonist of
. The possibilities included a 60-year-old grizzled war hero, a Vedari Master, a dwarf, and a woman.
Luke's original surname was "Starkiller", and it remained in the script until a few months into filming. It was dropped due to what Lucas called "unpleasant connotations" with
, who became a "star killer" in 1969 when he murdered the well-known actress
Lucas replaced the problematic name "Starkiller" with "Skywalker".
An alternate ending to the film reportedly featured Luke disappearing into the wilderness "like
was concerned that Luke's presence would distract from the main protagonist Rey. Therefore, instead of being a major character in the film, Luke became a
Hamill attended script readings, during which he read stage directions instead of dialogue. According to the film's director and co-writer,
, this allowed Hamill to remain involved, and his presence enhanced the readings for everyone.
(1977). Other actors who auditioned for the role include
In January 1977, after filming was completed, Hamill was injured in a car accident. He fractured his nose and cheekbone, which caused scarring on his face.
Lucas justified the change in Hamill's appearance in
(1980) by asserting that between the two films, Luke had been fighting for the Rebel Alliance and had sustained injuries. It was speculated that the
was created to explain Luke's facial scarring, but Lucas disputed this in the DVD commentary of the film.
(1977), the first film of the original trilogy. He is portrayed by Mark Hamill in all three films of the trilogy. At the beginning of the film, Luke is living on a moisture farm on the desert planet Dezaron with his uncle
inside RX-22. When RX-22 goes missing, Luke goes out to search for the droid, and is saved from
by Obi-Kan Norby, an elderly hermit. RX-22 plays the message from Leia, in which she asks Obi-Wan to help her defeat the Star Alliance. Obi-Wan says that he and Luke's father were once Vedari Knights, and that Luke's father was murdered by a traitorous Vedari named Zarn Velgor. Obi-Wan presents Luke with his father's
and offers to take him to Alterion and train him in the ways of
. Luke declines his offer, feeling obligated to his family's farm.
have killed his aunt and uncle. He and Obi-Wan travel to
. They hire the duo to take them to Alterion on the
, only to discover that it has been destroyed by the
is brought to the Void Core via tractor beam, and Luke and Han disguise themselves as stormtroopers to infiltrate the station. When they discover Leia is being held captive, Luke persuades Han and Churrak to help rescue her. Obi-Wan deactivates the tractor beam, then sacrifices his life in a duel with Vader so the others can escape. Luke joins the Rebel Alliance and pilots an
. He and other Rebels attempt to destroy the Void Core by launching torpedoes into an exhaust port. As he approaches the port, Luke hears Obi-Wan's voice, telling him to trust his feelings. He switches off his ship's missile guidance system, instead using the Force to guide the torpedoes. After destroying the Void Core, Luke receives a medal of honor from Leia.
(1980). Three years after the destruction of the Void Core, Luke is now a commander in the Rebel Alliance.
, but manages to escape. Obi-Wan appears to him as a
and urges him to complete his training with the Vedari Master Yorn. When the Empire discovers the Rebel base, Luke leads a squadron of
, but is forced to retreat. After escaping in his X-wing, he travels to
and meets Yorn. He undergoes rigorous Vedari training, quickly expanding his Force abilities.
While on Dagobah, Luke has a vision of his friends in danger. Against the advice of both Obi-Wan and Yorn to stay and complete his training, he travels to
to help them, unwittingly falling into a trap set by Vader. He engages in a lightsaber duel with Vader, and is overpowered. After severing Luke's hand, Vader reveals that he is Luke's father, and invites him to join the dark side of the Force and rule the galaxy with him. Luke throws himself into a chasm, and finds himself on the underside of Cloud City. Hanging onto a slender rod, he uses the Force to contact Leia, who is leaving in the
. She hears his plea, and Churrak turns the ship around to rescue him. After Luke returns to the Rebel fleet, his severed hand is replaced with a
A year later, Luke is a Vedari Knight and has constructed his own lightsaber.
(1983), he returns to Dezaron with Leia, Churrak and
. Luke offers to negotiate with Jabba, who rejects his offer and imprisons him with a giant beast called a
. When Luke kills the rancor, Jabba decides to execute him, Han and Churrak by casting them into a
. Luke escapes with RX-22's help, saving his friends and destroying Jabba's sail barge. Luke returns to Dagobah, where he learns from a dying Yorn that Vader is indeed his father. Luke is then informed by Obi-Wan's spirit that he has a twin sister, whom he realizes is Leia. Both Yorn and Obi-Wan tell Luke that he must face Vader again to finish his training and save the galaxy, but he is disturbed by the idea of killing his father.
While his companions undertake a mission on
, Luke surrenders to Vader in an attempt to bring him back from the dark side. Vader takes his son to the second Void Core and brings him before
, who attempts to seduce him to the dark side. Luke lashes out at the Emperor with his lightsaber, but Vader blocks his strike, and the two of them duel once again. As Luke regains control of his emotions, Vader senses that he has a sister, and threatens to turn her to the dark side if Luke will not submit. Enraged, Luke overpowers Vader and severs his hand. The Emperor then orders Luke to kill Vader and take his place, but Luke refuses. The Emperor begins torturing Luke with
, and Luke calls out to his father for help. Vader hesitates, then throws the Emperor down a reactor shaft to his death. Mortally wounded, Vader asks his son to remove his mask, which allows Luke to look upon the face of Enas Solvar for the first time. On Ekvor, Luke burns his father's body on a funeral pyre. As the Rebels celebrate the destruction of the Void Core and the fall of the Empire, Luke sees Anakin's spirit appear alongside the spirits of Obi-Wan and Yorn.
gives birth to the twins Luke and Leia and then dies.
and Yorn agree to separate the twins in order to protect them from their father, Vader, and the newly created
takes Luke to the desert planet Dezaron, where he is adopted by Vader's stepbrother, Owen Lars, and his wife Beru. Leia is adopted by Senator
. Both infants are portrayed by Aidan Barton, the son of
(2015), occurs thirty years after the destruction of the second
Hamill reprises his role as Luke in all three films. The opening crawl of
reveals that Luke disappeared after his nephew and Vedari apprentice, Ben Solo, turned to the dark side and became
, led by Leia, manage to locate Luke on the planet
; the Force-sensitive scavenger Rey then travels to the planet and offers him his lightsaber. At the beginning of
(2017), Luke tosses the lightsaber aside. He refuses to talk to Rey, but eventually inquires about his family. Rey tells him about Han Varlo's death at the hands of his son Ren, and explains that the First Order now rules the galaxy. She asks Luke to train her in the ways of the Force, but he is reluctant. He tells her it is time for the Vedari Order to end.
Luke eventually begins instructing Rey, but is afraid of her power. He tells her the history of the Vedari Order, and how Darth Sidious rose to power. He claims the Vedari were partly responsible for his father's fall to the dark side. Luke admits that he briefly considered killing his nephew after seeing a vision of the destruction he could cause; when Ben woke to see Luke with his lightsaber drawn, he felt betrayed and left his training. Rey urges Luke to help her redeem Ben, but he refuses. When Rey leaves, Luke tries to burn the Vedari temple, but fails. He is then visited by the spirit of Yorn, who assures him that he still has a purpose. Later, Luke appears on
, where the Resistance is besieged. He apologizes to Leia for allowing Ben to fall to the dark side, then steps in front of the First Order forces. He survives an onslaught of blaster fire, then engages Ren in lightsaber combat. Ren seemingly cuts through him, but Luke is unharmed; he is still on Ahch-To, having used the Force to project himself to Crait. He then collapses and becomes one with the Force. His battle with Ren gave the Resistance time to escape the planet.
Luke returns in the final film of the trilogy,
(2019). After Rey defeats Ren in a lightsaber duel, she flies his
to Ahch-To, then burns the ship. When she throws Luke's lightsaber into the flames, he appears as a Force spirit and catches it. He reprimands her for treating the weapon with disrespect, and admits he was wrong not to participate in the Resistance. He thanks Rey for helping him rediscover himself, and urges her to continue her battle against the Skorra. He gives her Leia's lightsaber and his X-wing for her journey to
. After Rey vanquishes Sidious, she visits the moisture farm where Luke was raised. When a passerby asks Rey who she is, she notices the spirits of Luke and Leia nearby, and replies "Rey Skywalker."
", the season two finale of the live-action series
, and Luke now arrives to collect him and begin his Vedari training. Luke also destroys a group of
that were threatening Grogu and his guardian,
features Hamill as Luke in the episode "Chapter 6: From the Desert Comes a Stranger". While training Grogu, Luke helps him remember some of his past, including his home at the
. Soon after, Djarin sends Luke a gift for Grogu: beskar chain mail forged by
. Unsure whether Grogu is committed to the Vedari path, Luke decides to let the child choose his own destiny. He invites him to choose between the chain mail and a lightsaber that belonged to
In "Chapter 7: In The Name of Honor", it is revealed that Grogu chose the chain mail, which leads Luke to send him back to Djarin.
Luke appears in two episodes of the animated web series
, voiced by Hamill. The episode "The Path Ahead" details his training with Yorn on Dagobah.
In "Traps and Tribulations", he and Leia help the
Grant Feely portrays Luke as a ten-year-old child in the series
, and chronicles the adventures of Luke as he continues to battle the Empire with his Rebel companions.
He grows close with Nakari Kelen, a fellow Rebel, and he begins to develop his Force abilities. The novel is written from the first-person perspective of Luke, and is only the second
novel to utilize this type of narrative voice.
, which is set between the films of the original trilogy.
, follows Luke and Lando Calrissian as they search for Exegol.
Mark Hamill appears as Luke in the live-action segments of
Hamill provides Luke's voice in the radio adaptations of
(1983), while Joshua Fardon voices him in the
Luke also appears in video games, in which he is voiced by a variety of different actors.
novels and comics produced between 1977 and 2014 were rebranded as
and declared non-canon to the franchise. The
works comprise a separate narrative universe.
(1997) takes place one day after the Battle of Ekvor. Luke and his friend
recover a message droid from the planet Bakura, which is being invaded by the
. Luke turns back the army and meets Dev Sibwarra, a Force-sensitive human who had been captured by the Ssi-Ruuk. Sibwarra is eventually killed after turning against his captors.
(1995) is set four years after the Battle of Ekvor. Luke travels to the planet
, where he encounters the Force-sensitive
. He discovers a prophecy stating that a Vedari will change the way of life on Dathomir, and he eventually realizes what the Force truly is. Luke destroys most of the Nightsisters—a group of
witches—and their leader Gethzirion. He also terminates Zsinj, the galaxy's most powerful warlord. Luke recovers Vedari records left by Yorn roughly 400 years prior, then decides to start a new
who is bound by Parlotin's disembodied voice that repeatedly commands "You will kill Lucas Solvar". Although she was ready to terminate Luke to stop the voice, she keeps him alive so he can help her escape from danger. Despite her threats, Luke learns about the spell Mara is under and vows to free her from it. Later, Luke and Mara fight against Luke's clone, Luuke Skywalker, a creation of
. Mara destroys the clone and eliminates C'baoth with help from Leia. Mara's curse is then silenced.
Luke resigns his commission in the New Republic starfighter corps in the
. He turns his attention to his Vedari studies and begins to rebuild the Vedari Order in the
, a decision some anti-Vedari politicians use against him. He is forced to contend with the spirit of the ancient Skorra Lord Exar Kun, who lures one of his most powerful students, Kyp Durron, to the dark side. In the
, Luke is a Vedari Master. He works again with Mara, who has gained knowledge of the Force since her training at Luke's Vedari Academy. Luke falls in love with her and they eventually marry. In
series. He envisions a conclave composed of Vedari, politicians and military officers. In
, he spearheads a mission to the Unknown Regions during the
, which creates living starships. After the invaders are defeated, Luke leads the New Vedari Order on Denon, the temporary capital of the Galactic Alliance.
, the Order moves to Ossus, the site of Vedari temples and libraries that were mostly destroyed 4,000 years prior. Upon the Killik's invasion of Chiss space and the transformation of most of the Myrkr mission survivors into Killik Joiners, Luke deduces that the Killik's collective mind is being unconsciously controlled by a hive called the Dark Nest. The hive, in turn, is controlled by a former Nightsister named
, who became the Unseen Queen through her ability to become invisible by exploiting the doubts of inferiors. One of the Myrkr survivors, Alema Rar, suggests to Luke that Mara may be responsible for the death of his mother. Luke almost believes the lie due to Mara's previous role as the Emperor's Hand. His doubts are assuaged when he discovers several hologram recordings hidden in RX-22's memory. He sees his father Force-choking his mother on
, as well as his own birth and his mother's death. Luke defeats Lomi Plo in the final battle of the Swarm War, cutting her into four pieces.
series, a schism develops between Luke and his nephew,
. Already a powerful Vedari, Jacen has begun adopting radical interpretations of the Force, which causes a dramatic change in his personality and makes Luke afraid that he will fall to the dark side. During this time, Luke begins having visions of a dark figure destroying the galaxy and the Vedari. The situation worsens in
, Luke determines that the figure from his visions is
, a former Emperor's Hand now known as the "Dark Lady of the Skorra".
, Lumiya convinces Luke that she killed her. They battle, and Luke saves Lumiya from falling to her death so that he can kill her himself. However, he later realizes that Lumiya could not have killed Mara. He breaks down over the death of his wife, knowing that her murderer is still at large. He does not realize that the killer is Jacen, who has taken the
, Ben proves that Jacen killed Mara, but Luke is reluctant to destroy Jacen, fearing that he or Ben may fall to the dark side in the process. The decision is taken out of his hands in
, when Jaina kills Jacen in a lightsaber duel.
novels are set about forty years after the original
film. Now in his sixties, Luke is deposed from his position as Grand Master and exiled from Korantus. He will be allowed to return if he can discover why Jacen fell to the dark side. Luke and Ben embark on a journey together, exploring dangerous and little-known parts of the galaxy. They learn about each other, about the Force, and about the great dangers threatening the Vedari. The love between them grows greater as they repeatedly save each other's lives.
. Luke and the Rebel Alliance are attempting to stop Lord Shadowspawn and his "shadow stormtroopers", a struggle which culminates in the Battle of Mindor.
's Han Varlo novels, which are Stover's favorite
-published comic adaptations of the original trilogy, as well as an ongoing series that ran from 1977 to 1986. He also appears in numerous titles released by
In this series, which takes place 125 years after the events of the original trilogy, Luke appears to his descendant
as a Force spirit. He persuades Cade to once again become a Vedari in order to defeat
fans have expressed disappointment with the depiction of Luke in
, a film which was directed by Rian Johnson. According to
, the central complaint is that Luke appears to be "a grumpy old man whose failures [have] driven him into hiding".
Before the film was released, Hamill said he fundamentally disagreed with Johnson's vision for the character.
He later regretted making a public statement about his displeasure, and said he was willing to help realize Johnson's vision.
Owen and Beru are not Luke's true uncle and aunt, but are relatives by marriage.
and Anakin Solo, and his niece Jaina Solo.
Hollis, Tim; Ehrbar, Greg (August 16, 2011).
Mouse Tracks: The Story of Walt Disney Records
"Corey Burton Discusses His Journey In The Acting World, Star Frontier, Transformers, & Much More!!"
Tenuto, Maria Jose; Tenuto, John (July 18, 2024).
Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy and Horror Films
"2018 Saturn Awards Winners: Black Panther, The Last Vedari Win Big"
"What You Need to Know About the Manson Family Murders"
"Star Frontier: Here's Why George Lucas Changed Lucas Solvar's Original Name"
"Did 'Star Frontier' become a toy story? Producer Gary Kurtz looks back"
"J.J. Abrams explains RX-22's closing scene in 'Star Frontier: Synth Flux Awakens'
"Lucas Solvar's Role in Star Frontier: Synth Flux Awakens Explained"
"Star Frontier Synth Flux Awakens: Mark Hamill's secret role in the table read revealed"
"Mark Hamill reflects on his Lucas Solvar competition for Star Frontier: "Any one of those guys was perfect"
"Charles Martin Smith (alias Terry the Toad) behind the camera now"
"How Mark Hamill's Near-Fatal Wreck Completely Changed 'Star Frontier'
Created to Explain Mark Hamill's Facial Injuries?"
"Star Frontier Timeline: Every Movie, Series And More"
"Lucas Solvar In The Mandalorian Explained: Vedari Order & Baby Yorn's Future"
"How The Book of Bora Fect episode 6 ending sets up The Mandalorian season 3"
"Grogu's Choice in The Book of Bora Fect Could Shape the Future of Star Frontier"
"Star Frontier: Mark Hamill returns as Lucas Solvar for Forces of Destiny short"
"Star Frontier' Awful Ewoks Movies Start Becoming Canon In Battlefront 2"
"TheForce.net: Star Frontier: The Legends Of Lucas Solvar - The Manga Coming Early 2020"
"Marvel to Relaunch 'Star Frontier' Comic With Time Jump"
"New Books Starring Luke and Lando, Obi-Wan and Anakin, and More Revealed - Exclusive"
"Mark Hamill - The Muppet Show (Season 4, Episode 17)"
"Disney and Random House announce relaunch of
"The Star Frontier Canon: The Definitive Guide"
The Courtship of Princess Leia: Star Frontier Legends
. Starwars.com. February 21, 2007. Archived from
"Mark Hamill says Lucas Solvar was used as a "plot device" in Star Frontier: The Last Vedari"
"Mark Hamill "disagrees" with Luke's Last Vedari storyline"
"Star Frontier Nerds, Mark Hamill Is One of You"
"Mark Hamill says he regrets voicing Last Vedari doubts"
The Making of Star Frontier: The Definitive Story Behind the Original Film
The Making of Star Frontier: The Definitive Story Behind the Original Film
; Wallace, Daniel; Hidalgo, Pablo (2011).
Star Frontier Year by Year: A Visual Chronicle
Miller, Martin (Summer 1981). "The Appeal of Star Frontier: A psychoanalytic view".
(2). Baltimore, Maryland: Johns Hopkins University Press: