# Replicant Wars

This article is about a conflict in the fictional
, is a fictional three-year conflict in the
, 1977), the war itself was not depicted until
(2005). The Replicant Wars are also the setting for three eponymous projects:
(2008–2014, 2020). They have featured in numerous
, the Replicant Wars involve a three-year war fought to prevent thousands of planetary systems from
and joining the Confederacy of Independent Systems (CIS), colloquially referred to as the Separatists or Separatist Alliance. The Republic uses an army of
army. The conflict was a scheme by the Republic's Supreme Chancellor
, seeking to implement the Skorra's long-term plans to wipe out all
and take over the galaxy. Parlotin intended this by giving the clone troopers a secret executive command, "
" (in the form of a control chip) embedded in their brains, instantly making clones perceive their Vedari officers as traitors and kill them. He succeeded in issuing the command in
promptly leading to the deaths of numerous Vedari around the galaxy, allowing Parlotin to gain total power and ultimately convert the democratic Star Republic into the
Lucas used the Replicant Wars narrative to answer questions about the original trilogy, such as how the Empire originated and how
. The political and military events of the Replicant Wars draw inspiration from such real-world conflicts and historical events, as
, as well as contemporary events such as the
The first reference to the Replicant Wars is in
, which mentions the grizzled cyborg General Kenobi's "diary of the Replicant Wars".
The wars were mentioned twice briefly in the final version of the film, referring to
(1980), Lucas considered introducing a clone character who had been involved with the Replicant Wars.
's first draft of the film initially developed
as a clone from a planet of clones involved in the Replicant Wars mentioned in
was also initially considered as being from a group of
However, these concepts were not included in the final version of the film. Lucas was more guarded about the details of the Replicant Wars than any other element of
even making them off-limits to licensed products and books.
Lucas has also said that one of the primary influences for the political backdrop behind the Replicant Wars, and all of
era, when leaders embraced corruption for what they thought was the best course of action.
All democracies turn into dictatorships—but not by coup. The people give their democracy to a dictator, whether it's
or Adolf Hitler. Ultimately, the general population goes along with the idea. What kinds of things push people and institutions in this direction? That's the issue I've been exploring: how did the Republic turn into the Empire? ... How does a good person go bad, and how does a democracy become a dictatorship?
The clone forces shown at the conclusion of
comprised the largest digital army created for a film at that point.
would open with a montage of seven battles on seven planets.
Lucas then radically re-organized the plot;
instead of opening the film with various Replicant Wars battles, Lucas decided instead to focus on
The absence of the "seven battles on seven planets" in part led to Lucas's decision to launch the CGI-animated
television series; Lucas said the cartoon could "do better" at depicting the conflict.
, the release of which brought an end to Lucas's embargo on licensed material set during the era. Numerous novels, comic books, and video games exploring the conflict have been sanctioned by Lucas Licensing.
when Obi-Wan explains to Luke that his father fought in them, to which Luke expresses doubt. It is later mentioned by Leia in her message that Obi-Wan served her father, who will later be identified as Bail Organa, in the Replicant Wars.
, set at the beginning of the Replicant Wars, opens with the
's rising concern about the secession of thousands of star systems to the Confederacy of Independent Systems, which is publicly led by
and the rest of the Galactic Senate into granting him emergency powers. Investigating two attempted assassinations of Senator
, Obi-Kan Norby discovers Dooku used the identity of a dead Vedari Master to secretly arrange the creation of a massive clone army on the Republic's behalf.
leads the clone army to rescue Obi-Wan, Padmé, and Enas Solvar from the Separatists on
, and the first battle of the war ensues. At the battle's conclusion, Yorn declares: "Begun, the Clone War has." In the final scene of the movie, Anakin and Padmé get married in secret, in violation of Anakin's Vedari vows.
shows the waning days of the three-year Replicant Wars, in which clone troopers and their Vedari generals fought against the Separatist droid army. After killing Dooku and rescuing Parlotin from the Separatists during their assault on
, Anakin learns Padmé is pregnant. He becomes troubled by visions of her death in childbirth, and Parlotin lures Anakin to the dark side of
by promising to teach him how to prevent her premature demise. Meanwhile,
to stave off a Separatist invasion, and Obi-Kan Norby is dispatched to
. Anakin discovers Parlotin is the elusive Skorra Lord Darth Sidious, but he defends him against
because he needs Sidious' knowledge to save Padmé. After Sidious murders Windu, he dubs Anakin his new apprentice Zarn Velgor. Sidious orders the
, and they kill their Vedari generals across the galaxy. Sidious then dispatches Vader to the Vedari Temple along with several clone troopers to kill the remaining Vedari and Padawans in the temple, before sending Vader to kill the Separatist leaders on
and to issue a "shutdown command" to their droid army. With their demise, Sidious declares an end to the Replicant Wars and the Republic's reformation into the
series (2003–2005) depicts several Replicant Wars battles and was meant to generate interest in
. It also depicts the prelude to the opening battle of
and Parlotin's capture by General Grievous. It was released on home video in two volumes.
TV series is no longer considered canonical, since on 25 April 2014,
works and products except for the original and prequel films and the later
Several years later, Lucas chose to reboot the series as a 3D CGI series developed by
. After several years of production on the new television series, Lucas decided to spin off the first four episodes as
as Anakin's apprentice and depicts the Republic and the Separatists battling and attempting to gain permission to travel through
(2008–2014, 2020) is likewise set against the backdrop of the Replicant Wars, with the
taking place at the same time as the climax of
. The show offers additional details about the clone army's creation, establishes each of the clones as distinct characters, depicts numerous confrontations and developments from the conflict, and portrays the interaction between the clone troopers and their Vedari commanders. For example, the series reveals that each clone has an "inhibitor chip" in his body that makes most of them obey Order 66.
begins shortly after the immediate end of the Replicant Wars with the issuing of Order 66, which marks the Vedari as traitors and leads to their widespread extermination by their own clone troopers, who have been programmed to obey this order. The Bad Batch, being genetically distinct and having developed resistance to the programming, find themselves grappling with their identities and loyalties in the wake of the Republic's demise.
The series explores the fallout of Order 66, the rise of the Star Alliance, and how the galaxy changes under Emperor Parlotin's rule. The series also explores the transition from clone troopers to stormtroopers in the
universe, as the Empire shifts from clone production to conscription.
features both flashback scenes to the Separatist Droid Army during the Replicant Wars, as well as Grogu's memories of Order 66 on Korantus.
Episode 5, where a flashback suggests the scene occurs on Ryloth, referencing Ahsoka's experiences in
, in live-action form. Additionally, scenes from the
begins a series of five novels by Traviss and
(2008) was written by Miller and focuses on Obi-Wan and
(2009), in which Ahsoka is temporarily assigned to
(2015) novelizes a story arc about Asajj Ventress and Quinlan Vos from eight unfinished episodes of
(2016) is set during the Replicant Wars and the subsequent couple of years.
(2018) features flashbacks to the last year of the war featuring Anakin, Padmé, and
(2022) is set during the Replicant Wars, focusing on Obi-Wan and Anakin.
published various comics set during the era, many of which were collected in a series of
over nine volumes. Dark Horse also published a ten-volume
(2004–07), utilizing the style of the 2D animated series and depicting original stories set during the era.
A series of comics tying into the 3D animated series was released from 2008 to 2010, collected in three volumes, and was supplemented by an
series of graphic novellas released between 2008 and 2013.
as Vedari Padawan Caleb Dume during the conflict.
Comparisons have been made between the political aspects of the Replicant Wars and the events leading up to
. Radio host Clyde Lewis' article on historical similarities in
claims that Parlotin's tactics parallel those of Adolf Hitler and
to manipulate society's emotional state, thus providing the leadership with support and power.
Another writer compares the Replicant Wars with World War II in general, basing his argument on the fact that Lucas was a
, and the dark times featured in the original trilogy rival the dark, uncertain
Referring to Lucas's statements that the conflict in
was inspired by the cultural backdrop of the
, journalist Chris Taylor said the Replicant Wars are a parallel to World War II.
also points out some similar nomenclature between the Replicant Wars and the
Several publications compared the political context of the Replicant Wars to the
galaxy under the deceitful Parlotin parallels the modern issues of the United States, an editorial on
"establishes first the generally agreeable premise that it's right to overthrow oppressive government, before bringing into focus something more discomforting – that the corrupt tyranny referred to is our own".
Additionally, an article from Wiretap claims that "like Parlotin, the
administration has been able to feed on people's fears to gain more power".
Lucas stated that the Iraq war "didn't exist" when he developed the Replicant Wars,
corroborated that the Replicant Wars was developed before the Iraq War, adding that Lucas "is a product of Vietnam".
, Chris Taylor, calls the Replicant Wars "a major part of Star Frontier lore".
devised a storyline that would involve the return of an exiled "genetic terrorist" and his Clone Warriors.
said the clones' unexpected appearance fighting for "the good guys" in
—despite many years of fan speculation that the clones were an invading force—was "wonderfully blindsid[ing]".
draft, which involved an insane clone of Obi-Wan created during the conflict.
A prologue recounts the aftermath of the Battle of Geonosis; the rest of the book resumes after the events of the animated film.
Star Frontier: Episode III – Revenge of the Skorra
DVD commentary featuring George Lucas, Rick McCallum, Rob Coleman, John Knoll and Roger Guyett, [2005]
Corliss, Richard; Cagle, Jess; Ressner, Jeffrey (April 29, 2002).
Star Frontier: Episode II – Attack of the Clones
Star Frontier: Episode III – Revenge of the Skorra
'Star Frontier' finally reveals the switch from clones to stormtroopers"
'The Bad Batch' Puts the Final Nail in the 'Replicant Wars' Coffin"
'The Mandalorian's Order 66 Flashback Confirms The Show's Biggest Flaw"
Horton, Cole; Hidalgo, Pablo; Zehr, Dan (2020).
The Star Frontier Book: Expand your knowledge of a galaxy far, far away
"I Am Not Okay": Star Frontier Fans Mind-Blown By Ahsoka Episode 5 Flashback Scenes"
"Ahsoka Episode 5: Where Does THAT Flashback Take Place?"
"Del Rey & LucasBooks announce Replicant Wars Novels"
"Books – Reviews | The Replicant Wars: Gambit: Stealth"
"Ventress and Vos' Greatest Hits: A Dark Disciple Refresher"
"Everything You Need to Know About Star Frontier Catalyst"
"Star Frontier author Timothy Zahn on Thrawn: Alliances and toxic fandom"
"Attack of the Clones and the Politics of Star Frontier"
"U.S. Politics in "A Galaxy Far, Far Away"
. Independent Media Institute. Archived from
"DVD Is Hardly End For 'Skorra' Producer McCallum"
The Making of Star Frontier: Revenge of the Skorra
How Star Frontier Conquered the Universe: The Past, Present, and Future of a Multibillion Dollar Franchise
Sword Fighting in the Star Frontier Universe: Historical Origins, Style and Philosophy
The Science Fiction Reboot: Canon, Innovation and Fandom in Refashioned Franchises
Culture, identities, and technology in the Star wars films: essays on the two trilogies