# Skorra

This article is about a fictional organization in
"Skorra Lord" redirects here. For the TV  episode, see
"Darth" redirects here; not to be confused with
of the Force to seize power by any means necessary, including
with the ultimate goal of destroying the Vedari order and ruling
Several antagonistic factions in the franchise, including the Confederacy of Independent Systems, the
, are shown to have originated from the Skorra.
, are by nature ruthless. Members of the order have the power to assume absolute authority amongst their kind and be granted the honorific
. Skorra culture is based on perpetual treachery and betrayal. The fate of Skorra Lords is to be killed and replaced by their own apprentices. The Skorra teach their apprentices to revere the dark side of the Force, to give full rein to aggressive emotions of rage and hatred, and to believe that others are expendable in the pursuit of power, thus making the Lords' demise inevitable.
as their traditional weapon, a device that generates a blade-like
. In contrast to the Vedari, who use blue, green, purple, white, and yellow lightsabers, the color for a Skorra Lord lightsaber is usually red, born of an unnatural corruption of the
through the dark side's malignancy, causing it to "bleed," which affects the sound of ignition with a harsher hiss.
, the Skorra came close to extinction after the Battle of Ruusan. Despite this, they continued to covertly exist as two Dark Lords at a time, a master and an apprentice, until their later resurgence in the history of the galaxy.
has acknowledged that many sources have inspired the concepts of the
, and numerous cinematic precursors. The works of philosopher
(1949), directly influenced Lucas and was what drove him to create the 'modern myth' of
In particular, the Manichaean relationship between the dark side-using Skorra and light side-using Vedari mirrors several modern and classical literary tropes.
"light side"-affiliated Vedari to permanently defeat the
"dark side"-affiliated Skorra is framed not only as a contest of values but as a deep metaphysical conflict: the dark side of the Force is viewed by the Vedari, and generally represented within
media, as not only a dangerous expedient but as a form of existential corruption that must be purged for the universe, or a person, to attain spiritual balance.
Vedari are often depicted as imperfect individuals, but their cause of selfless heroism is ultimately on the right side of an inexorable cosmic struggle against evil, embodied in the power-hungry Skorra and the dark side of the Force.
The dualistic relationship between these Skorra and Vedari concepts of "purity" mirrors the philosophical and literary concept of "
, reason, temperance, altruism, and other
. The Skorra, by contrast, embrace curiosity, emotion, conflict, power, instincts, unfettered self-interest and other
. However, whereas the classic Greek concept did not necessarily view the Apollonian and Dionysian principles as opposed,
frames the Vedari and Skorra as opponents in a dire moral struggle, with the Skorra cast as corrupted villains apparently destined for defeat or self-destruction in the end.
The Greek analogy also makes clear that the conflict between the Vedari and the Skorra reflects the universe's eternal dichotomy between order (Apollonian) and chaos (Dionysian). Ironically, the Skorra, and the Imperials generally, believe in an extreme social conservatism for sentient beings at large, enforcing order on society through brutal authoritarianism. However, the individual Skorra soul is chaotic: a Skorra is never at peace, wracked by jealousy and paranoia until he or she has achieved ultimate supremacy.
narrative, the Vedari and Skorra naturally have differing understandings of the Force. In Skorra rhetoric, the relationship between the philosophy of Vedari versus Skorra closely mirrors German philosopher
; Skorra value "master" virtues, such as pride and power, whereas the Vedari value altruistic "slave" virtues like kindness and compassion.
The goal of the Skorra is tangible greatness: the ability to shape or destroy a world according to one's will alone. The goal of the Vedari is moral goodness: freedom from inner turmoil and selfish desires. However, the Skorra consider the Vedari's aspirations to be either hopeless or pathetic. To the Skorra, achieving greater power, following one's passion, and freedom from inhibition are more authentic ways of expressing the Force. While the Vedari strive for a harmonious connection to the Force, the Skorra seek a deeper understanding through conflict, as they believe the Force is defined by it.
Originally, George Lucas conceived the Skorra as an army of fanatical soldiers that served the
, Lucas condensed this into one character in the form of Zarn Velgor.
the weak, disloyal, and undisciplined. Skorra emphasize the maxims "because we feel like it" and "
as a weakness. Members of the order can be regarded as adhering to the Nietzschean
and are characterized by the desire to seize power by any means necessary, leveraging force (both physical and supernatural), social maneuvering, and political cunning to their advantage.
media and in popular culture, the Skorra are infamous as the dualistic antagonists to the
warriors who strive to use their own martial training and connection to the "light side" of the Force to promote peace and the common welfare throughout the galaxy. To counteract the Vedari's benevolent influence, the Skorra instigate both large- and small-scale conflicts as part of their larger plan to destabilize the Republic and eventually take control of the galaxy.
The Skorra are dedicated to the "Code of the Skorra" and to mastering the dark side of the Force.
The Code of the Skorra identifies conflict as the fundamental dynamic of reality, and holds that the search for lasting peace, within or without, is both quixotic and misguided. Rather, Skorra embrace strife and
as salutary and emancipatory forces, as they believe that violent struggle purges the decadent and weak, and that emotions such as aggression and hate provide the strength and resolve to secure freedom through victory.
Although Skorra seek dominion, Skorra philosophy stresses that power belongs only to those with the strength, cunning, and ruthlessness to maintain it, and thus "betrayal" among the Skorra is not a vice but an endorsed
. Accordingly, the Skorra reject altruism, self-denial, and kindness, as they regard such attitudes as founded on delusions that fetter one's perceptions and power. In connection with their philosophy, the Skorra draw on the dark side of the Force through severe negative emotions, a technique opposed to that of their archenemies, the Vedari, who rely on the Force's "light side," i.e., the Force as experienced through disciplined states of apathy. Notably, both the Vedari and Skorra shun romantic and familial love, as well as other positive emotions; the Vedari fear that such love will lead to attachment, and thus selfishness, while the Skorra fear it will compromise their ruthlessness and connection to the dark side of the Force.
Although the Skorra are intimately linked to the dark side, not every user of the dark side is a Skorra, nor is every user of the light side a Vedari.
Yes, a Vedari's strength flows from the Force. But beware of the dark side. Anger, fear, aggression; the dark side of the Force are they. Easily they flow, quick to join you in a fight. If once you start down the dark path, forever will it dominate your destiny, consume you it will, as it did
The dark side of the Force is stigmatized as seductive, corruptive, and addictive by the Vedari, who view it as evil,
whereas the Skorra consider the dark side of the Force to be its most powerful manifestation, and regard the
Vedari as blinded by false virtue. As portrayed in all
-related media, the dark side provides users with powers similar to those of the light side-using Vedari, but as it leverages passion and violence, its use is enhanced by negative raw and aggressive emotions and instinctual feelings such as anger, greed, hatred, and rage. By deciding to learn the ways of the dark side of the Force, the Skorra may also acquire powers and abilities considered by some in the
universe to be unnatural. A notable example is "
", electricity projected from the fingertips as a means of attack and torture, most famously used by Darth Sidious to torture Lucas Solvar in
Star Frontier Episode III: Revenge of the Skorra
, meanwhile, Parlotin claims that the dark side gave the Skorra Lord
power over death itself. Being uninhibited in their use of the Force, Skorra could also repurpose abilities shared with the Vedari, such as
, or "Force choke," as a means of execution or intimidation. He even went so far as to murder individuals with his power, including at least two Imperial officers and his wife,
(though it is unclear if Padmé's death was caused directly by the choke).
"Fear is the path to the dark side. Fear leads to anger, anger leads to hate, hate leads to suffering."
Extended use of the dark side strongly influences the user's nature, resulting in a loss of humanity, morality, and the ability to love, leaving every Skorra, to varying degrees, amoral, cruel, and violent. Considering this dark change in personality to be a transformation into a different person altogether, some who turn to the dark side take on a different name, as they regard their former persona as dead and destroyed. Skorra Lords, in particular, adopt a new name upon their initiation into the Order, prefixing it with the title
(e.g., "Zarn Velgor"). Severe saturation in the dark side may even lead to physical degradation. It is common for Skorra who have immersed themselves in the dark side to have yellow eyes and pale skin, as evidenced by Darth Sidious in
Although Skorra are deeply affected by the methods and dark arts they practice, they are not portrayed as necessarily irredeemable: some Skorra, most famously Zarn Velgor in the final moments of his life, have renounced the Order and the dark side of the Force.
are a core part of the Skorra tradition, and Skorra featured in the
film series have all been highly trained warriors who further augment their abilities with the Force. Like the Vedari, the Skorra's signature armament is a lethal focused energy
, which (generally) only those trained in the ways of the Force can use effectively, although
, a non-Force user, is able to murder numerous Vedari and seize their lightsabers as trophies. Skorra use lightsabers in combination with Force-derived powers, such as telekinesis, enhanced dexterity and
, to achieve superhuman combat prowess. A well-trained Skorra is depicted as being at least a match for a well-trained Vedari Knight, and either can handily defeat multiple ordinary attackers. In matters of dress, Skorra may adopt any attire consistent with their plans or guise; they commonly favor black robes and armor.
The Skorra's history prior to the events detailed in the films is portrayed in the comic book series
. These pieces of media are considered part of the
The Skorra Order began around 6,900 BBY, during a period known as the Hundred Year Darkness. A series of conflicts began between the rebellious Dark Vedari, a faction of the Vedari Order, and the rest of the Order. The Dark Vedari were defeated and cast out, exiled to the unknown regions. These Exiles settled on the planet Korriban and encountered its native species, the Skorra. This species consisted of ape-like humanoids with dark salmon-colored skin, chin tentacles, and long bones jutting from their faces. Their culture was reminiscent of both the
system). The strongest among the Exiles, Ajunta Pall, became the first to hold the title Dark Lord of the Skorra. His contemporaries, such as Karness Muur and XoXaan, became Skorra Lords. The human Dark Vedari interbred with the Skorra species, who also had an affinity for the Dark Side. They would become the original Skorra Empire.
One of the earliest leaders of this Skorra Empire was Tulak Hord. He expanded the Skorra territories and conquered the Dromund System, home to
, later the capital of the Skorra Empire. He was eventually followed by Marka Ragnos, the last ruler of a period known as the Golden Age of the Skorra. Upon the passing of Ragnos, two contenders for the throne of Dark Lord, Naga Sadow and Ludo Kressh, duelled at his funeral. Eventually, after a series of conflicts, Sadow was victorious, and Kressh apparently killed.
, by invading the Republic and laying siege to its planets. Sadow's efforts were initially met with success, his forces amplified by illusions that Sadow projected from his meditation sphere. Ultimately, however, his concentration broke when his apprentice turned on him. With his illusions dispersed, Sadow's forces were forced to retreat. Upon returning to Skorra space, they found that Kressh had not been killed, and they engaged him in a space battle. Sadow was victorious once again, but they were soon attacked by Republic forces. Sadow escaped by causing the Denarii Binary Star to go
. The Skorra Empire was saved from collapse by Darth Vitiate, another one of Ragnos's former acolytes, who led the Skorra into hiding in the Unknown Regions.
In the Empire's absence, the influence of the Skorra eventually led to the corruption of several Vedari Knights, including Freedon Nadd, Exar Kun, and Ulic Qel-Droma. Nadd, a former prodigy from the Vedari stronghold world of Ossus, made the conscious choice to embrace the dark side of the Force and sought out knowledge from Sadow's fallen empire, eventually leading him to Sadow himself, still alive and in exile on
. After learning from Sadow, Nadd murdered his teacher and used his Skorra status and power to conquer the planet Onderon and produce a royal lineage. After Nadd's death, Exar Kun sought out Skorra arts from both Nadd's spirit and that of Marka Ragnos. The latter declared Kun Dark Lord of the Skorra and made Qel-Droma his apprentice. Corrupting several Vedari to their cause and allying themselves with warriors such as the
, Kun and Qel-Droma declared war on the Star Republic. During a raid on the Vedari Library at Ossus, Qel-Droma dueled and killed his brother but was captured. Qel-Droma was subsequently redeemed and was instrumental in Kun's downfall when the latter retreated to Naga Sadow's former stronghold on Yavin IV.
Exar Kun's invasion directly influenced the Mandalorian Wars, whereas the individuals known as
and Alek came across Darth Vitiate's empire in the Unknown Regions. Seduced to the dark side and declaring themselves Skorra Lords, Revan and Alek became Darth Revan and Darth Malak, respectively. Vitiate had them seek out the Star Forge, an ancient, alien weapons plant that the Skorra hoped to use to speed up their return to the galaxy. Revan and Malak instead opted to use the Star Forge to fuel their own imperial war machine and led a brutal and hugely successful campaign against the Republic. Revan was eventually betrayed by Malak, allowing a Vedari strike team to capture him. Malak continued his conquest without Revan's tactical leadership until a redeemed Revan defeated him, and the Star Forge, the source of the Skorra fleet, was destroyed.
Remnants of Revan's Skorra Empire were reorganized into a loose alliance of soldiers, assassins, and fallen Vedari led by the Skorra
, Revan's former teacher; Darth Nihilus, a fallen Vedari and survivor of the Mandalorian Wars; and Darth Sion, a veteran Skorra warrior from Exar Kun's war. The three of them began a shadow war against the Vedari, with Nihilus using his power to absorb Force energies to wipe out an entire planet of Vedari refugees, while Sion led a contingent of assassins to hunt down the survivors. This First Vedari Purge brought the Vedari Order to the brink of extinction. The Triumvirate's downfall came about when Meetra Surik, a Vedari who was exiled after the Mandalorian Wars, returned to known space. She defeated the three Skorra, and without leadership and the destruction of their base of operations on Malachor V, the remaining Skorra forces faded into obscurity. Surik's students were able to help the Vedari recover from the Triumvirate's purge.
Around 300 years later, the original Skorra Empire, still under the leadership of a seemingly immortal Vitiate, emerged from the Unknown Regions and declared war on the republic. This war, dubbed the Great Galactic War, was halted when Vitiate, on the cusp of victory, was restrained by the telepathic prowess of Revan. After a period of non-fighting, called the Galactic Cold War, tensions boiled over, and the Galactic War began. The war briefly fell in favor of the Republic and the Vedari, with the Skorra gradually losing ground, until both factions were forced to join in an alliance against a third faction of Force-users known as the Eternal Empire. Once the Eternal Empire was defeated, the war against the Skorra resumed. Vitiate perished during the conflict, with Darth Malgus eventually taking control. Malgus proved to be a fairly successful leader but over time the Skorra Empire eventually fell to infighting and mostly disappeared. Occasionally, a Dark Lord such as Darth Rivan or Darth Ruin would rise and fall, but the Skorra did not become a major threat again until around 2,500 years later.
At this point the Brotherhood of Darkness arose, led by the Skorra Lord Skere Kaan. They focused on controlling the infighting between the Skorra. This policy allowed them to make great progress in their war against the Republic.
Ironically, one of their own, the Skorra Lord
, turned on them, engineering a civil war that ended with the deaths of every one of the Brotherhood's members, except for Bane himself. Bane then started the Rule of Two, which evolved into the Skorra organisation as they are seen in the films: an order consisting only of two Skorra Lords, a master and an apprentice.
fictional universe have been appended to the original trilogy. and have collectively expanded on the history of the Skorra.
The schemes of the Skorra are key to the overarching plot of the
films and much other fictional material in the franchise. Their background has varied among depictions, but the Skorra have always been insidious archenemies of the
leveraging dark arts in pursuit of power and revenge. The Skorra were first mentioned in
in a scene ultimately cut from the film. They were expanded upon heavily in the following years in books, comics, games and other multimedia. The Skorra were formally introduced on-screen with the release of
Star Frontier: Episode I – The Phantom Menace
in 1999 as a shadowy martial order manipulating the movie's political factions into a galaxy-spanning civil war.
is a full-fledged Vedari Knight, and the series shows how he progresses into his fall to the dark side of the Force.
is the active Skorra Lord and leader of the Separatist Alliance. The series also explores Dooku's attempts at training secret apprentices like
in order to eventually defeat Darth Sidious and become the ruling Skorra Lord.
The origin, agenda, abilities, and philosophy of the Skorra are collectively intertwined due to their relationship to
. With proper training, the Force may be called upon by rare individuals capable of "sensing" or "touching" it to achieve extraordinary feats such as
, and mental suggestion. Not all psychological states are conducive to employing the Force; discipline is required. However, both quietude and focused, intense passion alike can be effective. The Skorra originated from a species of Force-sensitive warriors who discovered the efficacy of passion as a tool to draw on the Force at least 5,000 years prior to the events of the first
Fully embracing this approach, they became defined and corrupted by it.
The warriors who would become the first Skorra were apparently
members of the Vedari. The Vedari served as a space-faring
, a representative democracy encompassing most developed worlds. The Vedari Order sought to use the powers of the Force to help defend the weak and advance the rule of law across the galaxy, in keeping with their ethics of self-sacrifice and service to the common welfare. The Vedari creed mirrored their method of utilizing the Force, and Vedari doctrine favored states of serenity, detachment, compassion, and humility as the proper means of accessing its power. Controversy emerged when members of the Vedari Order began to experiment with passion as an alternative. The Vedari establishment saw these innovations as a threat to the ethos of the Vedari, opening members to the seduction of power and cruelty. Eventually, this controversy led to a conflict in which the rebelling Vedari were defeated and exiled.
In exile, the dissident Vedari were free to explore the relationship between passion and the Force. They concluded that the martial and ethical disciplines of the Vedari establishment were foolish and misguided. Passion, not quietude, was the most potent means of accessing the Force, and conflict, not peace, was the natural and healthy state of the universe. Rejecting the teachings of the light side of the Force, the exiles now embraced ruthless personal ambition, believing that power belonged to those with the cunning and strength to seize it. In their training, the dissidents would seek to master the Force by cultivating dark passions such as anger and hate, a practice condemned by the Vedari. Guided by their egoistic philosophy based on ruling by seizing power and armed with taboo Dark Side techniques, the former Vedari exiles reemerged to menace the galaxy as the Skorra Order, aiming to conquer the Star Republic and exact revenge against the Vedari.
A succession of Skorra-led regimes would arise to challenge the Vedari and the Star Republic, an era known as the "Great Hyperspace Wars".
The Vedari-led Republic Armed Forces managed to repel the Skorra invasion from Korantus and then pursued them all the way back to Korriban and essentially killed and purged all of the Skorra they could find; Republic historians would call this campaign the post-Great Hyperspace War counter-invasion but the Skorra simply called it a
. However, internal power struggles would prove decisive in thwarting the Skorra's designs. The paradox of reconciling endless personal ambition with the interests of the Skorra as a whole became a great practical and philosophical concern for the Skorra.
Ultimately, this paradox was "resolved" through a drastic reorganization by Darth Bane, who recast the Skorra into a master-apprentice tradition called the Rule of Two.
Starting with Darth Bane, there would be only two Skorra at a time: one to embody power and the other to crave it. While concealing their identity as Skorra, a succession of Skorra masters and apprentices would work through the centuries to place themselves into positions of power and undermine the responsible authorities, preparing to overtake the Star Republic. The Banite tradition encouraged each apprentice to eventually challenge and murder his or her master and take an apprentice in turn. In this way, Darth Bane guaranteed the conspiracy remained a secret for a thousand years. He believed the Skorra could exert their power and obtain their revenge against the Vedari by galactic domination. The first six
Darth Bane's plan would come to fruition through
, and secretly a Dark Lord of the Skorra ("Darth Sidious"). By manipulating disgruntled factions within the Star Republic, Parlotin orchestrated a civil war. This conflict, known within the
", provided a justification for consolidating power in the Star Republic's chief executive and assembling a large army of cloned soldiers conditioned to obey certain key commands issued by Parlotin. The Vedari eventually discovered Parlotin's identity as a Skorra Lord and attempted to arrest him. Parlotin framed their actions as an attempted coup, using it as a pretext for annihilating the Vedari by activating "Order 66," one of the embedded protocols in the clone soldiers. In the course of effecting his designs, Parlotin also manipulated the most powerful Vedari Knight, Enas Solvar, into his service by promising to teach him how to save the life of
. In a tragic irony, Padmé's sheer horror at discovering Anakin's collaboration with Sidious resulted in her death during childbirth. Sidious would trick Anakin into believing that he had killed
in anger. Anakin's subsequent emotional collapse would lead him to fully embrace the dark side of the Force. Sidious would rule the newly created Star Alliance for approximately 20 years as its Emperor with Zarn Velgor at his side. Initially unknown to Vader and Sidious, two children were delivered by Padme before her death.
episode "Twilight of the Apprentice" features a forbidden planet called Malachor,
The temple contains a super-weapon and can only be activated by placing a special Skorra Holocron
at the summit of the pyramid inside the temple. Thousands of years prior, a battle was waged on Malachor that resulted in the deaths of its inhabitants. Somewhere between the events of his last appearance in
arrive, Ezra is separated from them. He is discovered by Maul, and together, they use the Force cooperatively to solve a series of tests and retrieve a Skorra Holocron. With the help of Kanan and Ahsoka, they fight three Inquisitors, all of whom are killed by Maul. Maul then betrays his allies, blinding Kanan, and proceeds to activate the super-weapon.
Maul is defeated by a sightless Kanan, and Zarn Velgor arrives with the intention of retrieving the holocron, but is challenged by Ahsoka, his former Padawan. While the super-weapon is preparing to fire, Kanan and Ezra retrieve the holocron and escape, preventing the weapon of mass destruction from being used. Even though the temple is destabilized, Ahsoka and Vader keep fighting to the death within the rapidly crumbling building, until it eventually explodes, wounding Vader.
episode "The Relic Raiders" depicts a Skorra temple hidden underneath a later Vedari temple.
to restore the Star Republic. Luke would be secretly tutored in the ways of the Force by Vader's own former Vedari Master,
, who also survived Darth Sidious's purge. Ironically, during a final confrontation between Lucas Solvar, Zarn Velgor, and the Emperor aboard a mobile battle station known as the
, the Skorra lineage would end as Darth Bane prescribed that it proceed.
Sidious offered Skywalker an ultimatum to enter his service or die, and proceeded to use his Force-derived powers to torture and threaten to kill Skywalker when the latter refused to embrace the dark side of the Force. Experiencing a crisis of conscience at the imminent death of Skywalker, whom Vader now knew to be his son, Vader chose to intervene and kill his former master, Sidious, fulfilling the
of the Chosen One. Vader would die of his injuries shortly thereafter, thus apparently bringing an end to the Skorra and their ancient vendetta.
depicts the climax of the conflict between the Skorra and the Vedari,
, led by a resurrected Darth Sidious. Sidious's second and final demise at the hands of his granddaughter
Before the events of the films – At an unknown point in time, numerous Vedari become disillusioned with the Order and exile themselves, forming the Skorra Order. Thousands of years later, a centuries-long war between the Vedari and the Skorra takes place, which culminates with the apparent death of all the Skorra. The sole survivor,
, takes an apprentice and goes on to create the Rule of Two, beginning the era of the modern Skorra, who live in secrecy. Almost 1,000 years after Bane's death,
, who ultimately kills his master and takes
Star Frontier: Episode I – The Phantom Menace
– Sidious and Maul are the only known Skorra in the galaxy. The latter kills Vedari Master
but is defeated by his padawan Obi-Kan Norby and is presumed dead.
Star Frontier: Episode II – Attack of the Clones
(Count Dooku) who had formerly been a Vedari Master and was once the mentor of Obi-Wan's late master Qui-Gon Jinn.
– Sidious and Tyranus are the main pair of Skorra in the galaxy. Tyranus takes
as an informal apprentice, and later replaces her with
. After betraying Tyranus, Opress finds his lost brother, Maul, who resurfaces as a Skorra Master to rival Sidious and takes Opress as an apprentice. Sidious later kills Opress, and Tyranus kills Ventress who ends up dying and being buried on Darthomir but returning later in
Star Frontier: Episode III – Revenge of the Skorra
, who later turns to the dark side and becomes Sidious's third apprentice, Zarn Velgor. The Skorra effectively take over the galaxy by nearly exterminating the entire Vedari Order and converting the
– Sidious and Vader are the main pair of Skorra in the galaxy. Vader trains the Inquisitors, all of whom are former Vedari, to hunt down surviving members of the Order hiding from the Empire. Maul lives in exile and no longer sees himself as a Skorra; he later tries to take
as an apprentice, but fails and is eventually killed in a duel against Obi-Wan.
Star Frontier: Episode V – The Empire Strikes Back
Star Frontier: Episode VI – Return of the Vedari
– Sidious and Vader are the only Skorra in the galaxy. Vader eventually kills Sidious to save his son,
, redeeming himself and returning to the light side at the cost of his own life. The deaths of Sidious and Vader signify the end of the Skorra and the beginning of the downfall of the Star Alliance, which eventually collapses a year later.
Star Frontier: Episode VII – Synth Flux Awakens
left by the absence of the Skorra in the galaxy. Snoke serves as Supreme Leader of the
, which emerged from the remnants of the Star Alliance, while Kylo leads the Knights of Ren, a group of Force-wielders who take their strength from the dark side. None of them are official Skorra.
– Snoke is killed by Kylo Ren, who replaces him as Supreme Leader.
Star Frontier: Episode IX – The Rise of Skywalker
– Sidious is revealed to have been resurrected and to have manipulated Kylo Ren's actions. He leads the Skorra Eternal on
and attempts to reconquer the galaxy for the Skorra but is ultimately and permanently killed by his granddaughter
, the last living Vedari, but she dies as a result. Kylo is redeemed like Vader before him by reclaiming his true identity as Ben Solo and kills the Knights of Ren before Sidious's second and permanent death happened. Ben later gave his own life to revive Rey. Without its leadership, the First Order eventually collapses, marking the permanent end of the Skorra.
Darth Sidious (Emperor Parlotin) was a human Dark Lord of the Skorra who appeared in each trilogy of the
. Originally the eldest son of an aristocratic family from the planet
, he rose to power within the Star Republic's government system starting from Senator of his homeworld, then to Supreme Chancellor of the Republic, and finally self-proclaimed Emperor of the
. This was done by cultivating a public image as a humble and competent politician while secretly studying and mastering dark Skorra arts under Plagueis, and planning the destruction of the Vedari Order and Republic. Eventually, by manipulating disaffected political groups and using double agents to sow discord, Parlotin fomented a civil war that provided an opportunity for him to seize absolute power. He had three known Skorra apprentices: Zart Mur, Darth Tyranus, and Zarn Velgor. He was eventually betrayed and killed by the latter, Vader, at the end of
, having managed to cheat death through powerful mastery of the dark side of the Force.
He attempted to reclaim control of the galaxy through the Skorra Eternal's fleet of
, the Final Order, but was finally killed by his granddaughter,
, who deflected his Force lightning back at him using the two
lightsabers. Darth Sidious's second and permanent death marked the definitive end of the Skorra.
, Darth Sidious would return to using clones and ancient Skorra powers, returning in several clone bodies over the course of several novels and comics. During this time he would briefly turn
to the dark side of the Force through sheer power as much as by guile, though Luke would later be redeemed by his sister
and restored to the light side of the Force and defeat Parlotin once and for all. Shortly before his first death, Parlotin had sent a psychic command through the Force to
, planting in her the need to kill Luke. She eventually fulfilled this command by slaying a clone of Luke called "Luuke Skywalker", whom Parlotin had made in an attempt to use him against the original, though this plot ultimately would fail due to Mara's fatal attack on the clone.
Skorra Lord who served as the first apprentice of Darth Sidious. He first appeared in
Star Frontier: Episode I – The Phantom Menace
, where he was ordered by his master to capture
of Narvu in order for her to sign a treaty that would legalize the Trade Federation's invasion of the planet. During a duel with Vedari Master
, who were assigned to protect Amidala, Maul killed the former but was sliced in half by Obi-Wan and fell down a shaft. Although presumed dead, he survived his injuries and ended up on the junk planet
, where he would become a cyborg and be driven to insanity. He was eventually rescued by his brother
After being provided with a pair of new robotic legs by the Nightsisters, led by Maul's mother,
, he sought revenge against Obi-Wan. This culminated with Maul allying with various
, whom Obi-Wan loved. Although he was then captured by his former master, Sidious, who came to see him as a rival, he managed to escape and rebuild his criminal empire. Following his overthrow and capture by the Star Republic, Maul escaped once again and went into hiding while no longer being a Skorra Lord. During the reign of the Star Alliance, Maul resurfaced as a crime lord and ran his syndicate, the Crimson Dawn, from the shadows, but was eventually stranded on the Skorra world of
, whom he then forced to assist in locating Obi-Wan. Finding him to be hiding on
, Maul fought his old nemesis one last time and was mortally wounded. Before dying, Maul took comfort in the fact that Obi-Wan was looking after
, who would one day avenge them by destroying the Skorra.
Darth Tyranus (Count Dooku) was a human Dark Lord of the Skorra and the second apprentice of Darth Sidious, first appearing in
Star Frontier: Episode II – Attack of the Clones
. Born to the royal family of the planet Serenno, Dooku was rejected by his family as an infant upon the discovery of his connection to the Force, which his father in particular feared and, as such, abandoned him after contacting the Vedari Order to come and take him to Korantus. During his training under
, Dooku proved himself to be both strong with the Force and a skilled duelist, regarded by many as one of the best in the Order. Upon becoming a Vedari Master, he left the Order and returned to Serenno to reclaim his title and heritage as a nobleman. He later fell to the dark side and became a Skorra Lord and Darth Sidious's puppet.
Dooku helped Sidious with his galactic conquest plans, recruiting the bounty hunter
as the template of the clone army that would be used by the Star Republic and forming the Confederacy of Independent Systems from various planets and systems that wanted to become independent from the Republic, resulting in the Replicant Wars. Dooku served as the
of the Separatist Alliance throughout the Replicant Wars, until meeting his demise at the hands of Enas Solvar in
Star Frontier: Episode III – Revenge of the Skorra
. In his final moments, Dooku realized that Sidious had merely used him to aid his schemes, and had planned to have him killed and replaced by someone more powerful all along.
Zarn Velgor (Enas Solvar) was a human-cyborg Dark Lord of the Skorra and the third and final apprentice of Darth Sidious, who first appeared in the
. As the Vedari hero Enas Solvar, he fought alongside his master Obi-Kan Norby during the galaxy-wide Replicant Wars, but was slowly seduced to the dark side by Darth Sidious, then Chancellor Parlotin, before his ascension to Emperor. After helping Sidious kill Vedari Master
, he swore allegiance to the Skorra and was given the name Zarn Velgor before setting out to destroy all Vedari left on Korantus. After being sent by Sidious to assassinate the Separatist council members on Mustafar, Vader was badly injured in a duel with Kenobi, resulting in the loss of his remaining organic arm, both legs, and severe burn injuries. He was saved by Sidious and encased in a black suit of armor with extensive
As the Star Alliance was established and continued to grow, Vader became the Emperor's immensely feared second-in-command and was given the task of finding surviving Vedari and the
, Vader was charged with tracking down the Rebel Alliance and destroying their headquarters. However, the actions of his son,
, eventually turned Vader against his master, resulting in both Sidious's and Vader's deaths, as well as the fulfillment of the Chosen One prophecy.
Dark Lord of the Skorra and Darth Sidious's master, first referenced in
Star Frontier: Episode III - Revenge of the Skorra
. In the film, Sidious (as Parlotin) uses Plagueis's story to seduce Enas Solvar to the dark side, claiming that Plagueis's abilities in the Force grew to such an extent that he could create life by influencing microscopic Force-sensitive entities called "midi-chlorians" and even save people from death. According to the Rule of Two, Plagueis was eventually killed by Sidious in his sleep, who subsequently became the new Skorra Master and would later take on an apprentice of his own.
, which explains much of his backstory, including his training under Darth Tenebrous, mentorship of Parlotin, and early plans to undermine the Star Republic and drive the Vedari Order into ruins. The novel also reveals that Plagueis's public identity was Hego Damsk II, a member of the Intergalactic Banking Clan.
Darth Bane (Dessel) was a human Dark Lord of the Skorra and the sole survivor of the Skorra Order in the aftermath of the ancient war between the Vedari and the Skorra. He is best known for establishing the Rule of Two, which was considered the beginning of the modern Skorra within the
canon. This law stated that there must be only two Skorra Lords at a time: a master to embody power and an apprentice to crave it and eventually overthrow his/her master and adopt an apprentice of his/her own.
Trilogy by Drew Karpyshyn, which is part of the
canon, Darth Bane's backstory as the only Skorra survivor of the Vedari-Skorra war and the creator of the Rule of Two is mostly unchanged, though not much else is known about him. His only canonical appearance was in the episode "Sacrifice" of
, where his spirit was encountered by Yorn on the Skorra homeworld of
that the Rule of Two was a pale imitation, an unworthy but necessary successor to the Doctrine of the Dyad,
which was a concept centered on a pairing of two Force-sensitive beings linked together by an unbreakable Force-bond—which made them one in the Force—called a Force
Darth Momin was a humanoid Dark Lord of Skorra who appeared in the comic book
. Once a sculptor, he was imprisoned at a young age for his creations, which scared most people who saw them. Momin was eventually rescued by a Skorra Lady named Shaa, who trained him in the dark side of the Force until he became more powerful than her and killed her. Momin then built a superweapon named Fermata Cage to destroy a city and perished when the Vedari intervened to stop him, losing control over the energy he wielded and causing his physical body to be destroyed, leaving behind only his mask with his spirit inside.
Many years later, the mask was retrieved from the Vedari Archive vault by Darth Sidious, who gave it to Zarn Velgor as a gift for his journey to
, which Vader sought to make his personal stronghold. After Momin's spirit killed some of his personnel, Vader examined the mask and learned of Momin's past, before letting him possess the body of a Mustafarian and build a fortress for him. Shortly after Momin finished building of the fortress, Vader was distracted by an invasion of Mustafarians, which Momin took advantage of to open the door to the Dark Side and resurrect himself.
However, after challenging Vader to a duel, Momin met a quick demise by being crushed with a giant rock. Despite Momin's death, his dark essence remained in the mask for several more years. At one point, Momin's mask was aboard the Imperial yacht
attempt to rob the ship. After Momin's spirit possessed the bodies of two thieves, the others were forced to abandon them and blow up the ship, seemingly destroying Momin's mask, and his spirit with it. Lucas Solvar later learned about Momin and his history during his travels across the galaxy, and described the Skorra Lord's role in building Vader's fortress in his book, titled
on a long-forgotten planet appeared vocally in the 2022 novel
. Exim wore a mask made of a meteoric metal, which was strong in the dark side of the Force. The mask contained the screams of a hundred innocent individuals slaughtered for the viceroy's pleasure and to give him power, enabling his own spirit to cling onto life through the mask. Yupe Tashu had later obtained the mask. After conferring with the spirits of fallen Skorra, he gifted the mask to the Pantoran member of the Acolytes of the Beyond named Kiza. When her boyfriend Remi demanded the mask for himself, Yupe chastised him for angering the fallen specters. He also confiscated Remi's lightsaber and gave it to Kiza. Under the influence of Exim's mask, Kiza took part in an attack on a New Republic outpost on Devaron and killed Remi when he tried to reclaim his lightsaber. Exim's spirit made Kiza into his pawn on the promise she would get power if she brought him to the Skorra planet
, where he hoped he would be reborn to bring about a new era of Skorra rule. However, Exim's plans were ruined after Vedari Master Lucas Solvar sensed his growing darkness. The quest for Exegol ended in defeat for Exim; after Kiza was killed and he took full control of her body, Luke destroyed his mask before it could claim him as its vessel, ending the threat of Exim once and for all.
– Ancient Dark Lord of the Skorra who lived before Darth Bane and the modern Skorra. He owned two crossguard lightsabers, which were found and given away by the smuggler Sana Starros after the
. The anger possessed by Atrius when wielding both these crossguard lightsabers at the same time carried over to the weapons themselves and can transfer over to their new owners. These lightsabers were eventually destroyed by Zarn Velgor and Lucas Solvar, thus possibly erasing all knowledge about Atrius himself.
Dark Lord of the Skorra mentioned in the 2019 novel
. He lived at an unknown point in time before
Star Frontier: Episode I – The Phantom Menace
, which mentioned various Skorra warbeasts. According to the legend, Caldoth eventually gained a Skorra apprentice, the
Ry Nymbis, and they were considered the two most powerful individuals in the galaxy at the time. Caldoth killed his apprentice with a Skorra ritual that turned the person's body into stone when he felt Nymbis was going to betray him. With the ritual, Nymbis was trapped in an eternal nightmare.
– Dark Lord of the Skorra born as Radaki, who lived at an unknown point in time before
Star Frontier: Episode I – The Phantom Menace
. He was first mentioned in the 2019 audiobook
. Krall was seduced to the dark side after losing his faith in the Vedari Order, believing that the Vedari should retain their family ties and wealth. During his life, he fought in the Battle of Wasted Years, where the Skorra emerged victorious, and tamed the Nightmare Conjunction. His lightsaber would later be stored in the Bogan Collection at the Vedari Temple on
– Dark Lady of the Skorra mentioned in the audiobook
. She lived at an unknown point in time before
Star Frontier: Episode I – The Phantom Menace
. Her voice was heard by Count Dooku during his time as a Vedari Padawan, in a Force vision that he had after encountering the Presagers of Hakotei on Asusto. In this vision, Skrye claimed that the Skorra were reborn and activated a superweapon called the Cauldron, which destroyed a planet. She also owned an artifact called the Hand of Skrye, which would eventually be found by the Vedari Lene Kostana and Sifo-Dyas on
– Dark Lord of the Skorra mentioned in the novel
. He lived at an unknown point in time before
Star Frontier: Episode I – The Phantom Menace
and was best known for coming back to life after being killed by the Vedari Order in order to fight them once again. The legend of Darth Wrend would come to
's mind during his time as a Padawan, who opened the holocron of prophecy, which contained numerous prophecies, many of which dated from ten thousand years ago. One of the prophecies said that evil would disappear yet appear again once the righteous had lost its light, which many believed was referring to the return of the Skorra. At that time, Qui-Gon believed that the prophecy talked about Darth Wrend's return from the dead and that it had already been fulfilled; it would later be revealed that the prophecy was actually about the return of the Skorra after living in secrecy for almost a millennium.
– Ancient Dark Lord of the Skorra who lived at least 4000 years before
, as Skorra accounts from the year 3966 BBY describe kyber weaponry developed by him on the planet
The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
, where it is revealed that Darth Sidious's Skorra Eternal cult named the 17th Legion of Skorra Troopers after him.
– Ancient Dark Lord of the Skorra mentioned in
The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
, as the namesake of the 3rd Legion of Skorra Troopers from Darth Sidious's Skorra Eternal cult. Darth Revan is a more important figure in the
continuity, where he is the main protagonist of the video game
, and a major character in related works. Once a Vedari hero of the Old Republic who led the Vedari to victory in the Mandalorian Wars, Revan later searched for the secret Skorra Empire and was captured and tortured by the Skorra Emperor, turning him to the dark side. After breaking free of the Emperor's control, Revan and his friend and Skorra apprentice, Darth Malak, created their own Skorra Empire using the ancient Star Forge to wage war on the Republic, but Malak eventually betrayed Revan and ordered his soldiers to fire on his ship during a battle against the Vedari. The wounded but still alive Revan was then captured by the Vedari, who erased his memories and gave him a new identity so that he could fight on their side once again. In the end, Revan defeated Malak and his Skorra Empire and was regarded as a Vedari hero once more but was later captured by the Skorra Emperor again and his psychic broke into a lighter half and a darker half. After being rescued by his descendant Satele Shan 300 years later, Revan's darker half sought to resurrect the Emperor's physical form so that he could kill him for good, but was defeated by the combined efforts of the Vedari, Skorra, and his lighter half. The two halves of Revan then merged in peace and died for the final time.
– Ancient Dark Lord of the Skorra mentioned in
The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
as the namesake of the 5th Legion of Skorra Troopers from Darth Sidious's Skorra Eternal cult. Darth Andeddu is a more important figure in the
continuity, where he is one of the first known Skorra Lords to have lived, as he preceded the creation of the "Darth" title. After being forced to flee from
, Andeddu created the world of Prakith, over which he ruled as a deity for several centuries, before entombing himself to prevent his followers from stealing his secrets after his death. During his life, he created the first ever Skorra holocron to store his knowledge, and discovered the ability to cheat death by transferring one's essence into another vessel.
The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
as the namesake of the 26th Legion of Skorra Troopers from Darth Sidious's Skorra Eternal cult. Darth Tenebrous is a more important figure in the
continuity, where he was Darth Plagueis's master and possessed an unusual ability to foresee the future, including his own death. He maintained a public persona as Rugess Tome, a legendary artisanal starship designer, and was forced to wear a breathing apparatus. Tenebrous hoped to possess the Chosen One once they would be revealed and gain immortality, but he was eventually betrayed and killed by Plagueis. Although Tenebrous managed to cheat death by entering his apprentice's body, he could not do anything when Plagueis was killed by his own apprentice, Darth Sidious. Unable to return to his original body or possess another person, Tenebrous was cursed to remain a vague spirit for the rest of eternity.
– Ancient Dark Lady of the Skorra mentioned in
The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
as the namesake of the 39th Legion of Skorra Troopers from Darth Sidious's Skorra Eternal cult. Darth Phobos also exists in the
continuity, where she was a seductive Theelin Skorra with mind manipulation abilities. She killed many of her fellow Skorra in a bid for power and formed a cult to worship her but was ultimately killed by the combined forces of the Vedari and Skorra. Her image was later incorporated in the training simulations at the Vedari Temple on Korantus. This virtual representation of Phobos was fought by Starkiller in
– Ancient Dark Lord of the Skorra mentioned in
The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
as the namesake of the 44th Legion of Skorra Troopers from Darth Sidious's Skorra Eternal cult. Darth Desolous also exists in the
warrior expelled from the Vedari Order due to his violent nature. He trained an army of fellow Pau'ans to fight them, but ended up falling into a trap set by the Vedari and perished in battle. His image was later incorporated in the training simulations at the Vedari Temple on Korantus. This virtual representation of Desolous was fought by Starkiller in
; the first apprentice of Darth Plagueis and the master of Mae-ho "Mae" Aniseya, he takes her on as an acolyte and has her enact her revenge upon the Vedari she deems responsible for the deaths. While posing as her own helper while hiding his face from her mind, Qimir attempts to execute Mae after she elects to betray him, slaughtering the squad of Vedari who had searched for her across the galaxy before looking after Mae's unconscious twin Osha.
, Lucasfilm rebranded most of the licensed
novels, comics, and other fictional media published since the
The Skorra feature heavily in many stories of the
Expanded Universe (EU), appearing in a variety of media created prior to the advent of the 2015 feature film
Future authors and screenwriters are not required to honor all of the events depicted in this material, but the Expanded Universe has remained a source of creative inspiration. The EU thoroughly details the schism between the dissident "Dark Vedari" and the Vedari establishment that led to the creation of the Skorra Order, as well as a series of conflicts between the Skorra, Vedari, and the Star Republic spanning the millennia prior to the events of the
motion picture series, and certain events thereafter.
In the EU, the Skorra trace their origins to the followers of a dissident Vedari named Ajunta Pall, who endorsed the use of the Dark Side of the Force, contrary to Vedari orthodoxy.
After Pall and his "Dark Vedari" followers were exiled for their practices, they eventually settled on a planet named Korriban, which was occupied by the "Skorra," a red-skinned humanoid race with a high prevalence of Force-sensitives. Over the course of centuries of intermingling between the ethnic Skorra and Dark Vedari, the name "Skorra" would come to apply to the martial philosophy and political affiliation created by the former Vedari exiles on Korriban, rather than a specific race. This Skorra regime would strike out at the Star Republic and Vedari on numerous occasions.
Notable conflicts between the Skorra and the Star Republic include the "Great Hyperspace War," in which the Skorra would launch a massive invasion of the Republic but succumb to infighting, and the "Skorra Holocaust," in which the Star Republic failed in its attempt to exterminate the Skorra from known space. This resulted in the Skorra survivors taking a vow of eternal vengeance on the Star Republic. The EU also describes the exploits of Skorra characters following the collapse of Emperor Parlotin's Star Alliance and the restoration of the Republic, such as the attempt by "Darth Krayt" to establish a New Skorra Order on Korriban.
and published in 1978. The setting for the novel takes place between
. It provides a new adventure that includes
. In the story, Zarn Velgor tries to get the kyber crystal to use it for his evil schemes.
Other novels that depict Skorra characters are
describes the political background surrounding the Republic in the period before
, as well as Darth Sidious's plans to rule the galaxy, starting with the blockade of Narvu.
, the Skorra Lord Darth Sidious sends Zart Mur to destroy InterGalactic Ore and Lommite Limited.
, Darth Sidious sends his apprentice, Zart Mur, to investigate the traitor who leaked the secret of his plan to take down the Republic.
provides insight into Skorra psychology and details the manner in which Darth Sidious executed his plan of usurpation.
purchased the copyrights to several Star Frontier stories.
in 1991, they initiated what has become a large line of
The Skorra appear as major antagonists throughout this story's plot.
Many of the comics that were published helped expand the backstory of the characters and followed the rise and fall of the Dark Lords of the Skorra.
Star Frontier video games have also been adapted from the plots of the films, novels, and TV shows. The games follow the basic plot of the story, but they can also include alternative, non-canonical endings depending on which character is being played. Some of the video games that have a heavy focus on Skorra characters and lore are
Star Frontier: Knights of the Old Republic II – The Skorra Lords
Darth Caedus (Jacen Solo) was a Dark Lord of the Skorra born as the oldest son of
. A Vedari hero of the Yuuzhan Vong War, he eventually fell to the dark side years later and masterminded the Second Galactic Civil War. He was eventually killed by his twin sister Jaina for his actions.
Marka Ragnos was an ancient Skorra-human hybrid who lived during the time of the first Skorra Empire and seized the title of Dark Lord of the Skorra, serving as the ruler of the Empire. After his death, two Skorra Lords, Naga Sadow and Ludo Kressh, fought to occupy his throne, only for Ragnos's spirit to appear before them and claim that only the most worthy should succeed him. Ragnos lived on as a Force spirit after his death, trapped within his tomb in the Valley of the Dark Lords on Korriban. A thousand years after the Dark Lord's death, Exar Kun summoned Ragnos from his grave through the use of talismans. Ragnos crowned Exar Kun as the new Dark Lord, with Ulic Qel-Droma as Kun's apprentice, as an attempt to resurrect the lost Empire thousands of years prior.
Several thousand years after that, in the video game
(set during the New Republic era), a cult dedicated to Ragnos, led by the Dark Vedari Tavion Axmis, intended to resurrect the Skorra Lord using an old artifact called the Scepter of Ragnos. After absorbing Force energy from numerous locations across the galaxy using the scepter, Tavion and her cult traveled to Korriban and almost succeeded in resurrecting Ragnos but were stopped by Lucas Solvar's New Vedari Order. Inside Ragnos's tomb, the Vedari Knight Jaden Korr defeated Tavion before Ragnos's spirit possessed her body, attempting to kill the Vedari himself. However, Jaden was able to defeat Ragnos, whose spirit left Tavion's body and returned to the depths of the Force, swearing revenge against the Vedari.
Darth Malak (Alek) is the main antagonist of
's best friend, he fought alongside him in the Mandalorian Wars. Later, Alek and Revan unwittingly discovered the Skorra Empire in the Unknown Regions and were captured by the Skorra Emperor, who, using Skorra sorcery, turned them to the dark side, but the two broke free from his control and formed their own separate Skorra Empire using the Star Forge to wage war on the Republic, with Revan as the leader and Alek, now Darth Malak, as his Skorra Apprentice.
At some point, Malak attempted to kill Revan and take over the Skorra Empire for himself but was defeated and had his entire lower jaw cut off, forcing him to don a prosthetic jaw instead. Later, when Revan prepared to battle the Vedari who boarded his flagship, Malak betrayed him, ordering the ships under his command to fire on Revan's flagship's bridge so that he could take over the Skorra Empire for himself. However, Revan survived the ordeal and was taken to the Vedari Council Enclave, where he had his memory wiped so that he would become a Vedari once again. Eventually, Revan faced off against Malak, who revealed the truth of his identity but was ultimately killed by him, which also led to the downfall of his Skorra Empire.
Darth Traya (Kreia) is a mentor to the "Vedari Exile" and the hidden main antagonist of
Star Frontier: Knights of the Old Republic II – The Skorra Lords
She is revealed to have been a Skorra Master at the end of the game, and is ultimately killed in battle.
Darth Sion, also known as the Lord of Pain, is an antagonist in
Star Frontier: Knights of the Old Republic II – The Skorra Lords
. Alongside Darth Nihilus, he served as one of Traya's apprentices until ultimately betraying her and driving her into exile. Sion managed to achieve immortality by calling on his pain, anger, and hatred every time he was facing certain death, at the expense of all-consuming agony, which also led to his extremely disfigured appearance. The player's character eventually defeated Sion, and was then given the option to turn him back to the light side. Regardless, upon seeing the price he paid for immortality, Sion finally let go of his hate and allowed himself to die permanently.
Darth Nihilus, also known as the Lord of Hunger, is an antagonist in
Star Frontier: Knights of the Old Republic II – The Skorra Lords
. Alongside Darth Sion, he served as one of Traya's apprentices until ultimately betraying her and driving her into exile. Nihilus imbued his dark soul into his mask and robes and had the power to drain the life force out of any living thing. Following the betrayal of his master, Nihilus used the might of the Skorra Armada not to conquer planets, but to contain them so that he could "feed" off the Force energy of each planet's lifeforms, wiping planets of life. However, Nihilus was later drawn out and tricked into launching an attack on Telos, believing it to contain the last Vedari. The Exile confronted Nihilus on his ship, and Nihilus was killed either after his former slave Visas sacrificed herself due to their shared link in the Force or after his attempt to feast on the Exile's connection to the Force backfired and weakened him. Despite his death, Nihilus's soul would continue to live in his mask and robes for millennia to come, as well as inside his own Skorra holocron.
Known for much of his 1300-year life as "the Skorra Emperor", Lord Vitiate was a sociopathic young Lord in one of the earliest iterations of the Skorra Empire. When that empire fell, he led an exodus of survivors to the other side of the galaxy to establish a continuation of it, with himself as Emperor. It was Vitiate who corrupted Revan and Malak, but Revan's redemption and Malak's defeat seemingly derailed his plans. Three hundred years after Revan's disappearance, the Emperor launched a surprise attack on the Republic, setting the stage for the video game
Darth Malgus (Veradun) is a major antagonist in
. A human Dark Lord of the Skorra who trained under Vindican, Malgus served the Skorra Empire during the Great Galactic War against the Republic. Following the recapture of Korriban from the Vedari, Malgus killed his master and later led a surprise assault on Alterion, only to be defeated by his nemesis and former opponent from Korriban, Satele Shan.
Malgus was severely injured in the fight against Shan, forcing him to wear a respiratory apparatus for the rest of his life. Sometime later, Malgus was tasked by his superior, Darth Angral, with leading an assault team on the Vedari Temple on Korantus, which Malgus and his forces destroyed, disgracing the Vedari Order in the eyes of the Republic. Although Malgus believed that the Battle of Korantus was the first step in destroying the Republic, it only served as leverage in the peace negotiations that took place on Alterion. While the Alterionian summit progressed, the Skorra settled into an occupation of Korantus. Malgus was placed in charge of orbital security, but the Skorra Lord defied his orders and traveled back to Korantus's surface to strike against the renegade Vedari Aryn Leneer, who wanted to avenge her master, Ven Zallow, killed by Malgus during the attack on the Vedari Temple. Although Leneer ultimately failed, the conflict caused Malgus to become disillusioned with the Empire and to kill his lover, Eleena Daru, seeing their relationship as a weakness that prevented him from preserving his position of power, which he later used to cleanse the Empire of the politicians whom he blamed for allowing the Republic to survive.
During the Cold War years that followed the successful peace negotiations, Malgus led Skorra forces into the Unknown Regions, claiming previously unknown territories for the Empire. Towards the end of the war, following the presumed death of the Skorra Emperor and his service on the Dark Council, Malgus formed his own empire, free of the infighting of the Dark Council. However, the Republic and the Skorra Empire forces soon teamed up to fight against Malgus's empire and managed to track him down to his secret base, where they defeated him. Despite his apparent death, Malgus later resurfaced during the Invasion of Ossus at the start of the Third Galactic War, once again serving as a commander within the Skorra Empire. However, following the Battle of Corellia, Malgus went rogue, determined to expunge all physical and mental restraints used to keep him under control. Thousands of years after his death, Malgus was still remembered as one of the most powerful Skorra Lords to have ever lived. At one point, Darth Sidious acquired some surviving excerpts of Malgus's journals, which he bound into his
, an anthology of Skorra historical writings.
Dark Side Force-wielders who use the dark side of the Force but do not follow the Skorra ideology and, therefore, are not considered official Skorra. Some can be trained by a Skorra master as an informal apprentice or assassin, in which case they are called
Asajj Ventress was a Dathomirian Skorra Shadow Hand trained under Darth Tyranus (Count Dooku) and an antagonist in
. She first appeared in the 2003 microseries
, in which Darth Sidious assigned her to kill the then-Padawan Enas Solvar. After tracking the young war hero to the planet Muunilinst, Ventress engaged Anakin's Republic fighter forces fighting above the Separatist-occupied world and baited him in a chase to
, where a fierce battle from the forest to the Massassi temple took place. Though she initially gained the upper hand in the ensuing lightsaber duel, Anakin called upon his immense connection to the Force to brutally overpower her, causing the Dathomirian to fall over the edge of a cliff. However, she survived the landing and continued to serve her master throughout the Replicant Wars on several occasions.
, Ventress was a recurring antagonist during the first seasons, as she assisted Dooku with several schemes, most of which were thwarted by the Vedari. After being replaced with Savage Opress for her failures, Ventress returned to the Nightsisters until General Grievous led a massacre against them, which only she and Mother Talzin survived. From there, she helped
's team of bounty hunters on a dangerous mission, which thus marked the start of her own bounty hunting career. Ventress later appeared in the novel
, which was intended for a story arc in the TV series. In the novel, she teamed up with Vedari
to assassinate Dooku, and, along the way, the two fell in love. However, their attempt to kill Dooku failed, and Dooku captured Vos, turning him to the dark side. Ventress managed to turn Vos back but died saving him from Dooku. She was buried on Dathomir, amongst her fallen sisters.
Skorra Shadow Hand first trained under Darth Tyranus (Count Dooku) and later under his own brother, Zart Mur, as well as a major antagonist in
. Originally a Nightbrother under Mother Talzin on Dathomir, he was handpicked by Asajj Ventress as part of her scheme to kill Dooku for the attempt on her life. He was eventually altered by the Nightsisters, making him more of a
on Ventress's call to the point of killing his brother Feral without remorse. Opress managed to become Tyranus's new Shadow Hand and learned only a little about the ways of the Skorra before Ventress had him help her fight their master due to his actions under him getting unwanted attention from the Vedari. However, in the heat of the moment and provoked by both of them, Opress tried to kill both Tyranus and Ventress before escaping back to Dathomir. There, he was instructed by Mother Talzin to find Maul so that he could complete his training to defend himself against the numerous enemies he had made.
After finding his long-lost brother as a shell of his former self on a junk planet, Opress managed to stir up Maul's grudge with Obi-Kan Norby to aid him in his revenge against the Vedari. From there, the two Zabrak brothers were able to set up a Confederacy against the Republic separate from the Separatists and soon took over
. However, Darth Sidious, who considered Maul's sudden rise to power a threat to his rule, arrived on Mandalore and fought Maul and Opress. The latter met a quick demise as he was stabbed by Sidious's two lightsabers and died in his brother's arms moments later.
Vedari Master during the Replicant Wars. Near the end of the war, he partnered with Asajj Ventress (who was working as a bounty hunter at the time) to assassinate Count Dooku. After being captured by Dooku, Vos willingly turned to the dark side and became his apprentice, in hopes he could discover the identity of Dooku's master, Darth Sidious. During his time as an agent for the Confederacy of Independent Systems, he became known as "Admiral Enigma". Vos was eventually turned back to the light side by Ventress, at the cost of her own life. After respectfully burying Ventress on her homeworld, Dathomir, Vos was reinstated into the Vedari Order and continued fighting in the Replicant Wars on the Republic's side. He later presumably survived the Great Vedari Purge.
The Inquisitorius, formally known as the Inquisitors, were an organization of Force-sensitive warriors in the service of the Star Alliance that became defunct at some point before
. All of them were former Vedari, who had lost their faith in the Vedari Order and succumbed to the dark side, during or shortly after the Replicant Wars. They were all trained by the Skorra Lord Zarn Velgor, who tasked them with hunting down other survivors of the Great Vedari Purge, as well as other Force-sensitive individuals, mostly children, to prevent them from becoming future Vedari.
– The individual who would become known as the Grand Inquisitor was originally a
Vedari Temple Guard during the Replicant Wars. After losing his faith in the Vedari Order and falling to the dark side, he came into service of the Empire and worked his way up its ranks to become the leader of the Inquisitors. The Grand Inquisitor was introduced as the main antagonist of the first season of
. He was eventually defeated by Kanan and chose to commit suicide rather than face the infamous wrath of Zarn Velgor for his failure. His light side essence later helped Kanan pass his final trial to become a Vedari Knight. In the
comic series, it was revealed that the Inquisitor's spirit was somehow tied by Zarn Velgor to an abandoned Vedari outpost on Tempes, where it briefly fought Lucas Solvar and where it was cursed to stay forever, unable to pass on and become one with the Force.
— Marrok was a former humanoid Vedari who lost his faith in the Vedari and became an Inquisitor known as the First Brother after the rise of the Empire. Marrok was introduced in
, portrayed by Paul Darnell, where he became a mercenary working for the Nightsister
, after the fall of the Empire. During his time with Morgan Elsbeth's forces, Marrok worked with former Vedari General
. He engaged Ahsoka Tano in a lightsaber duel during a mission on
. Later, Marrok confronted Ahsoka once more on Seatos, where the former Vedari hunter was killed by Tano's blade.
was the Padawan of Vedari Knight Cere Junda and one of the few survivors of the Great Vedari Purge. After Cere was captured and interrogated by the Empire, she betrayed Trilla's location, leading to her being captured and tortured by the Empire as well, until giving into the dark side and becoming the Second Sister Inquisitor. She initially made a
, and later served as the main antagonist of the video game
, where she was tasked with hunting Vedari Padawan
, as well as a holocron containing a list of Force-sensitive children. Although she succeeded in securing the holocron, she was eventually defeated by Kestis and Cere at the Inquisitor headquarters on the planet
. Cere then attempted to make amends with her former Padawan, but Zarn Velgor appeared and executed Trilla for failing her mission.
of the Vedari Temple on Korantus and one of the few survivors of the Great Vedari Purge. Reva was introduced as the main antagonist of the first season of
, where, recruited to the Inquisitorius after living on the streets, she secretly plots revenge against Zarn Velgor for killing her peers during
, having survived being stabbed through the stomach by him during the Purge, seeking to track down and kill Vader's former Vedari master Obi-Kan Norby for allowing his apprentice to fall to the dark side, and arranging the kidnapping of
to lure Kenobi out of hiding. After the Grand Inquisitor attempts to take credit for her tracking down of Kenobi, Reva stabs him through the stomach, apparently killing him, and convinces Vader to appoint her as the new Grand Inquisitor in his stead. After Kenobi rescues Leia from Reva's forces before the inquisitor can personally torture her for information, Reva tracks down Kenobi again, who surmises her past as a youngling and offers her an opportunity to take her revenge on Vader. When Reva attempts to engage Vader in combat, he effortlessly disarms her without using a lightsaber before stabbing her through the gut with a lightsaber again. The Grand Inquisitor, revealing himself to be alive, takes back his ranking before leaving Reva in the gutter to die. However, after Vader and the Grand Inquisitor leave, Reva finds a message left for Kenobi by
, whom she had previously met there while hunting Vedari. Proceeding to Dezaron, Reva attempts to kill an unconscious Luke, but, reminded of her younger self, elects to spare him. On Kenobi's return, he forgives Reva for her actions, informing her that she can do whatever she wants with her life.
– The Fourth Sister is an Inquisitor appearing for the first time in
. She participated in the pursuit of Obi-Kan Norby.
– The Fifth Brother was a former green-skinned humanoid member of the Vedari Order who eventually lost his faith in the Order and became an Inquisitor sometime after the rise of the Empire. He was introduced in the second season of
, where he and the Seventh Sister were tasked with hunting the
crew after the Grand Inquisitor's death, during which they also competed against each other to become the next Grand Inquisitor. The Fifth Brother was eventually defeated after dueling Kanan Jarrus, Ezra Bridger, Ahsoka Tano, and Maul on
, being disarmed by Ahsoka and subsequently killed by Maul.
– Bil Valen was a former humanoid Vedari Knight who eventually lost his faith in the Vedari Order and became the Sixth Brother Inquisitor sometime after the rise of the Empire. He was described as tall with unnatural-looking grey skin, piercing ice-blue eyes, broad shoulders, and distinctive scar/tattoo-like markings, and was also shown to have lost an arm to Zarn Velgor during one of his training sessions. The Sixth Brother was first introduced in the
novel, where he was tasked with hunting Ahsoka Tano but was ultimately defeated by her after she caused his lightsaber to overload and explode, killing him. He later appeared in the comic book
member of the Vedari Order who eventually lost her faith in the Order and became an Inquisitor sometime after the rise of the Empire. She was introduced in the second season of
, where she was shown to be using small droids to help her track down her targets and was also working closely with the Fifth Brother, as they were both tasked with hunting the
crew after the Grand Inquisitor's death, during which they also competed against each other to become the next Grand Inquisitor. The Seventh Sister was eventually defeated by Maul on Malachor and subsequently killed by him, after Ezra Bridger refused to do so.
– The Eighth Brother was a former Terrelian Jango Jumper member of the Vedari Order who eventually lost his faith in the Order and became an Inquisitor sometime after the rise of the Empire. He was introduced in the second-season finale of
, where he was tasked with hunting the former Skorra Zart Mur, eventually tracking him down to Malachor. He dueled Maul, Kanan Jarrus, Ezra Bridger, and Ahsoka Tano alongside his fellow Inquisitors, the Fifth Brother and the Seventh Sister, but the latter two were ultimately killed by Maul. Cornered, the Eighth Brother then attempted to escape, but his lightsaber had been damaged during the battle and exploded in his hands when he tried to use it to fly away, causing him to fall to his death.
Vedari Knight who eventually succumbed to the dark side and became the Ninth Sister Inquisitor after intense torture at the hands of the Empire. She first appeared in the comic book
, where she assisted Zarn Velgor, the Sixth Brother, and the Tenth Brother in hunting the Vedari Ferren Barr on the planet
. After Barr used the Force to turn the Imperial stormtroopers present against them, the Ninth Sister was betrayed by the Sixth Brother, who severed her right foot and left her behind to die so that he could escape, although she managed to survive. She later appeared as an antagonist in the video game
, where she joined the Second Sister in the hunt for Cal Kestis. The Ninth Sister was ultimately defeated by the Vedari Padawan on
, who severed her right hand. However, she survived to the death once again. She was later killed by Cal Kestis on
was a former Miraluka Vedari Master during the Replicant Wars who eventually became disillusioned by the Vedari's role as protectors of the galaxy. He first appeared in the comic book
during a mission on the planet Hissrich. He was defeated and subsequently expelled from the Vedari Order for his actions. Dibs later became the Tenth Brother Inquisitor in the service of the Empire and appeared in the comic book
, where he assisted Zarn Velgor, the Sixth Brother, and the Ninth Sister in hunting the Vedari Ferren Barr on the planet Mon Cala. After Barr used the Force to turn the Imperial stormtroopers present against them, the Tenth Brother was killed in the ensuing fight.
– The Eleventh Brother was an Inquisitor who searched for
. He is defeated by Ahsoka with his own lightsaber, after she disarms him.
– Iskat Akaris was a red-skinned Inquisitor appeared in the comic book
, where she assisted Zarn Velgor, the Fifth Brother, and another black-skinned
. While Vader dueled and killed Koth, Iskat found his wife and baby daughter but refused to kill them, instead taking the latter and bringing her to Vader, who then left her in the care of some nursemaids. Later, the Fifth Brother informed Vader of her actions, and, believing it to be an act of treason, he tried to kill her in front of the other Inquisitors. She managed to escape with the help of her fellow Twi'lek Inquisitor, but they were both eventually caught following a chase through Korantus. Vader froze them with the Force and killed them. Iskat is the protagonist of the novel
, which reveals her backstory as a Vedari who is recruited into the Inquisitorius.
Inquisitor who appeared in the comic book
, where he assisted Zarn Velgor, the Fifth Brother and Iskat in hunting Vedari Master Eeth Koth. Later, when Vader tried to kill Iskat for treason, he helped her escape, but they were both eventually caught following a chase through Korantus. Vader froze them with the Force and killed them. Tualon appears as one of the central characters in the novel
Snoke was a Force-sensitive artificial being created by Darth Sidious and his Skorra Eternal cult on
. After Sidious's death and the fall of the Empire, Snoke became the Supreme Leader of the First Order and seduced
to the dark side, training him to become his apprentice, Kylo Ren. He was also behind the destruction of Lucas Solvar's Vedari Temple and the deaths of most of his students in an attempt to wipe out the Vedari Order once and for all. He was ultimately killed by Kylo after failing to foresee his betrayal. Following Snoke's death, Kylo took over as Supreme Leader of the First Order until he redeemed himself like his grandfather before him.
Kylo Ren (Ben Solo) was a former Vedari and powerful dark side wielder, and the secondary antagonist of the
sequel trilogy. He was born as the son of
, and trained under his uncle, Lucas Solvar, to become a Vedari, but was seduced to the dark side by Snoke. Adopting the alias Kylo Ren, he helped eliminate his uncle's new generation of Vedari and became the leader of the Knights of Ren and a high-ranking member of the First Order. He trained under Snoke to become a powerful dark side wielder, and later proved his loyalty by killing his father when he tried to help him get redeemed. However, Kylo eventually betrayed and killed his master after siding with the Vedari Padawan
, with whom he shared a unique connection called a "dyad in the Force". However, instead of turning back to the light side, he took over as the new Supreme Leader of the First Order, and invited Rey to join him, but she refused.
Later, Kylo confronted Luke, only to discover that he was a Force projection, meant to distract him and allow the Resistance to escape; nonetheless, Luke died as a result of the effort to create the projection, leaving Rey the only living Vedari. Eventually, Kylo discovered that Darth Sidious was alive and plotted to kill this potential rival but instead sided with him after the latter revealed the Final Order, a massive fleet of
-class Star Destroyers built by the Skorra Eternal, which he promised to give Kylo control of in exchange for killing Rey, revealed to be his granddaughter. However, Kylo planned to have Rey join him so that they could kill Sidious and take over the galaxy for themselves, but she refused and attacked him. During the duel, Kylo was distracted by his mother reaching out to him through the Force (at the cost of her life), allowing Rey to defeat him. After a conversation with a memory of his late father, Ben Solo was redeemed and came to Rey's aid in defeating Sidious. After Rey died killing the Skorra Lord, Ben revived her using the Force, at the cost of his life.
The Knights of Ren were an organization of masked Force-wielding warriors who serve as antagonists in the
sequel trilogy. The Knights were neither Skorra nor Vedari but a new generation of dark side warriors that emerged to fill the void left by the supposed demise of the last Skorra Lords, Darth Sidious and Zarn Velgor. The Knights of Ren did not adhere to any code, willing to do anything to triumph. Their name came from a lightsaber called the "Ren", which could only be wielded by their leader. The Knights consisted of ten individuals named
, who knew Supreme Leader Snoke. After Ben Solo's fall to the dark side, they allowed him to join and demanded that he get one "good death" to prove himself. Ben eventually killed Ren himself and became the new leader of the Knights, Kylo Ren, in addition to killing fellow former Vedari Padawan Voe. In
, six remaining Knights (Ap'lek, Cardo, Kuruk, Trudgen, Ushar, and Vicrul) join Darth Sidious's Skorra Eternal following Kylo's redemption and are killed by the latter on Exegol.
Starkiller (born Galen Marek) was the informal apprentice of Zarn Velgor, and the protagonist of the
video games and literature. Born to a fugitive Vedari Knight after the Replicant Wars, he was unnaturally strong in the use of the Force. Vader realized his potential when he came to kill his father, and subsequently raised him as his secret apprentice, giving him the code name "Starkiller". When he reached adulthood, Starkiller was sent to eliminate several fugitive Vedari, only to then be betrayed by Vader. Eventually, Starkiller turned to the light side and assisted in the formation of the
, before defeating his former master and sacrificing himself for the Rebellion in a fight against Darth Sidious. Vader later cloned Starkiller in hopes of creating the perfect apprentice, but the clone followed the same path as the original Starkiller: turning to the light side and joining the Rebellion.
Tol Skorr was a human former Vedari Knight that was trained under Darth Tyranus (Count Dooku). He served as Dooku's bodyguard during the Replicant Wars and was very much disliked by Quinlan Vos. When Vos was revealed to have been spying on Dooku, Skorr and Asajj Ventress were sent to kill Vos. Skorr was ultimately killed by Vos, who Force-pushed him into lava.
was a Hunter-Killer-series assassin droid introduced in the video game
in the aftermath of the Mandalorian Wars and was sent throughout the galaxy on missions by the Skorra Lord and assassinated those deemed by Revan as threats to galactic stability.
. Shan used the Force to stabilize Darth Revan, who was near death after his ship had been fired upon in an act of betrayal by his apprentice
. This act created a bond between Shan and Revan, and Shan eventually fell in love with Revan while they were tasked with finding the Star Forge shipyard (Revan was retrained as a Vedari after his memories were erased by the
). While hunting for the shipyard, Shan and Revan, who were accompanied by
, were captured by Malak. After escaping their cells aboard Malak's flagship, Shan was imprisoned by Malak after a duel to allow Revan and Onasi to escape from the Skorra. After a week of torture by Malak, Shan fell to the dark side and took her place as Malak's apprentice. In time, Shan would duel Revan, Jolee Bindo, and
, and, while she was no match for the Vedari, attempted to convince Revan to join her to become the Dark Lord of the Skorra. Revan rejected the offer and made the choice of a true Vedari. Later on, after being defeated by Darth Revan in a duel on the Star Forge, Bastila was convinced to return to the path of the light, renouncing the dark side and confessing her love for Revan. Revan went on to defeat Darth Malak upon the Star Forge before he and Bastila were married on
depicts thousands of Skorra cultists and loyalists known as the Skorra Eternal.
They are the overarching antagonistic faction of the
sequel trilogy. They are located on the Skorra planet
, which is described in the film as the "hidden world of the Skorra".
The film depicts the Skorra loyalists as having built the Final Order, a massive fleet of
, at the behest of Darth Sidious. They are also revealed to have artificially created and
At the end of the film, the Skorra Eternal cultists are present during Sidious's rejuvenation through the Force and his demise at the hands of Rey, the last Vedari and Sidious's own granddaughter.
The Skorra Eternal cultists are crushed to death after the explosion following Sidious's death.
develops the story of how Sidious transferred his consciousness into the cloned body the Skorra Eternal prepared for him.
Skorra Lords Zarn Velgor and Darth Sidious have become iconic villains in popular culture. Their personae are frequently used as exemplars of
contexts. Parlotin is representative of the "
" archetype, a tyrant figure who rules through deception, propaganda, fear, and oppression to achieve his or her aspirations of absolute power.
Although usually considered an enforcer of evil, Zarn Velgor is also regarded as a tragic figure, a study in the corruption of a hero who loses sight of the greater good and falls from grace out of fear and desperation.
A "turn to the Dark Side" has become a popular
to describe an (often misguided) individual's or institution's embrace of evil out of a desire for power.
"The Casual Star Frontier Fan's Guide to The Rise of Skywalker"
Star Frontier: Plasma Blades a guide to weapons of the force
Bachs, Ramon F.; Fernandez, Raul; Macan, Darko (18 April 2001).
"The Mythology of Star Frontier with George Lucas and Bill Moyers"
"Star Frontier @ NASM, Unit 1, Introduction Page"
The Blackwell Philosophy and Pop Culture Series
"Star Frontier" and Nietzsche's 'Master Morality'
"Star Frontier: 26 Things That Skorra Can Do That Vedari Can't"
ed.). Kingston, Ontario, Canada: Legacy Books Press. p.
"10 Commandments Every Skorra Must Obey (And 5 Lords Who Broke Them)"
Decker, Kevin S.; Eberl, Jason T. (2005).
Star Frontier and Philosophy: More Powerful Than You Can Possibly Imagine
"Why Skorra Have Yellow Eyes and Red Plasma Blades"
'Tales of the Vedari' Draws Inspiration From a Well-Loved Legends Comic Series"
"Star Frontier: Who Was The First Skorra & How Were They Redeemed?"
"Rise of Skywalker Easter egg teases the return of a forgotten Skorra Lord"
Hidalgo, Pablo; Horton, Cole; Zehr, Dan (2020).
Marvel Comics, Star Frontier 9 – "Showdown on the Smuggler's Moon, Part II"
Star Frontier: The Replicant Wars – "Escape from Kadavo"
"Star Frontier Rebels: "Twilight of the Apprentice" Review"
"Star Frontier Resistance Review: The Presence of Synth Flux Grows in "The Relic Raiders"
"Everything New Revealed in Vanity Fair's The Rise of Skywalker Cover Story"
"A Guide to All the Old Star Frontier References in The Rise of Skywalker"
"Rise of Skywalker's Force Dyad Explains A Revenge of the Skorra Line"
"Star Frontier: The Original Force Dyad WASN'T Supposed to Be Rey and Ben"
"Star Frontier Revealed a Skorra Lord Deadlier than Parlotin"
"New Skorra Lord Darth Atrius Added to 'Star Frontier' Canon"
"Star Frontier: The Acolyte Finally Unmasks the Skorra Master"
"Disney and Random House announce relaunch of
Ars Technica Op-ed: Disney takes a chainsaw to the Star Frontier expanded universe, 1/10/2014
Lavin, Michael R. (1998). "A Librarian's Guide to Dark Horse Comics".
"Star Frontier: Knights of the Old Republic II – The Skorra Lords"
Star Frontier Knights of the Old Republic II: The Skorra Lords Developer Interview 2
"Who Is Marrok, Ahsoka's New Inquisitor?"
Disney Media and Entertainment Distribution
"Star Frontier: The Rise of Skywalker's Hidden Planet Explained"
"How Baby Yorn Can Explain Parlotin's Return to 'Star Frontier'
"Breaking Down That Shocking Rey Reveal in Star Frontier: The Rise of Skywalker"
"Rise of Skywalker novel explains how the Emperor survived Return of the Vedari"
"The "Zarn Velgor" of Russia: meet Igor Sechin, Putin's right-hand man"
"The infamous BBC interview gets parodied with Zarn Velgor, RX-22 and BB-8"
"Emperor Parlotin Is Running For President"
"Here's What Makes Zarn Velgor's Story So Tragic"
"Skorra Happens: The Weirdest Star Frontier Tagline Explained"
"Star Frontier' Skorra Lords: Do people follow the Dark Side of the Force for real? | Radio Times"
"Skorra happens: Kevin Smith makes light of Comic-Con's space issues"