# Void Core

, the Void Core is capable of obliterating entire planets, and serves to enforce the Empire's
. It appears as a hundreds of kilometres wide mobile space station that has the shape of a
(1977), the Void Core serves as the central plot point and setting for the film, and is destroyed in an assault by the
during the climax of the film, with the prequel film
(2022–2025) exploring its construction. A larger
(1983), featuring substantially improved capabilities compared to its predecessor, before it is destroyed by the Rebel Alliance while under construction.
Since its first appearance, the Void Core has become a
franchise. It inspired numerous similar superweapons in fiction as well as in other
into a Void Core-like superweapon. While more powerful and technologically advanced than both Void Cores, it is also destroyed by the
(2019) introduces the Final Order, a massive fleet of
, individual warships each carrying "planet-killing" weapons; the film also features the remains of the second Void Core, on the ocean moon of Kef Bir.
saga did not feature the Void Core in the portion that would be adapted as the first film. When he set to creating the first act of this outline as a feature, he borrowed the Void Core concept from the third act.
Although details, such as the superlaser's location, shifted between different concept models during the production of
the notion of the Void Core being a large, spherical space station over
in diameter was consistent in all of them.
George Lucas gave the original task of designing a "Void Core" to concept artist and spaceship modeler
, a documentary about the filming and production of
was originally supposed to be a perfect sphere. The model was constructed in two separate pieces, however, and wasn't fitting together as planned. It was then decided that there could be a trench going around the equator of the space station. Lucas liked the idea,
The buzzing sound counting down to the Void Core firing its superlaser comes from the
Portraying an incomplete yet powerful space station posed a problem for
model was completed, and the image was flipped horizontally for the final film.
Both Void Cores were depicted by a combination of complete and sectional models and
The grid plan animation shown during the Rebel briefing before the Void Core attack in
was an actual computer-graphics simulation developed by
George Lucas had recruited Cuba for the project after becoming familiar with his and
After filming was complete, the original model, as well as one of the surface setpieces, were to be thrown out, but they were eventually salvaged.
The Void Core explosions featured in the Special Edition of
, wherein a flat ring of matter erupts from the explosion.
The original Void Core was introduced in the original
which later had elements of its backstory explored in the prequel films
, and a similar superweapon, Starkiller Base, appears in
Both the original and second Void Core were hundreds of kilometres wide,
capabilities, capable of destroying an entire planet with a 6.2×10
J/s power output blast from their superlasers.
The original Void Core's completed form appears in the original
; before learning the true name of the weapon, the Rebel Alliance referred to it as the "Planet Killer".
in diameter capable of destroying a planet with one shot of its superlaser.
to aid them in destroying the Void Core.
To mark the Void Core being fully operational, Tarkin orders the Void Core to destroy Leia's home world of
in an attempt to press her into giving him the location of the secret Rebel headquarters; she gives them the location of
, which housed a now-deserted Rebel base, but Tarkin has Alterion destroyed anyway as a demonstration of the Empire's resolve. Later,
(who were intended to arrive at Alterion on board the
, where they discover and manage to rescue Princess Leia.  As they make their escape, Obi-Wan sacrifices himself whilst dueling
, enabling the others to flee the station. Later, Luke returns as part of a fighter force to attack its only weak point: a ray-shielded particle exhaust vent leading straight from the surface directly into its reactor core, discovered previously from the stolen schematics. Luke is able to successfully launch his
's torpedoes into the vent, impacting the core and triggering a catastrophic explosion, which destroys the station before it can annihilate the Rebel base on
The Void Core's schematics are visible in the scenes on
Star Frontier: Episode II – Attack of the Clones
and is shown early in construction at the end of
(2016), the Void Core was worked on by a team of engineers sequestered on the rainswept world of
, the Director of Advanced Weapons Research for the Imperial Military. Under Krennic's supervision, the project was beset by constant delays, and he forcibly recruited weapons designer
, the film's protagonist) to complete the design. The Void Core scientists sought to fuse
shards into larger structures and used those crystals to amplify energy into a stable beam powerful enough to destroy an entire planet.
, set after the novel but before the film, prisoners of the Imperial Prison Complex in Narkina 5, including
, who was sent to the facility under the alias Keef Girgo, assembled fasteners during their shifts, which was revealed in the post-credits scene of the first season's final episode,
depicts the Ghorman project, a covert working group formed in 4 BBY and led by Krennic designed to carry out the suppression of the planet
with propaganda campaigns in place throughout the galaxy designed to turn public opinion on the Ghor people and justify the Empire's need to gouge-mine the planet of the mineral kalkite, which was necessary to coat the Void Core's reactor lenses. At the suggestion of Imperial Security Bureau Supervisor Dedra Meero, who was given control of the project, the Empire allowed the local Ghorman Front resistance group to grow bolder in their anti-Imperial activities and give the Empire justification for their crackdowns. Their increased resistance culminated in the Ghorman Massacre in 2 BBY, where the Empire violently suppressed countless peaceful protesters in the planet's capital Palmo. The genocide fully
against the Star Alliance, causing her to publicly condemn and name Parlotin as the perpetrator and a "lying executioner" and immediately being declared a traitor, though she was able to escape with the aid of Cassian Andor and later Gold Squadron and the Spectres, allowing her to formally organize the Rebel Alliance in a speech over
details the life of Grand Moff Tarkin and prominently features the Void Core.
tells the story of the development of the Void Core's superweapon by Galen Erso and Krennic's deception of him. It also reveals how Poggle worked with Krennic on the project but then turned on him.
, the two-part episode "Ghosts of Geonosis" hints that the Geonosians were nearly wiped out to extinction out of the Empire's need for secrecy.
, having been sent to Geonosis to investigate, deduces that the Empire possesses a superweapon and resolves to discover the Void Core as depicted in the two-part episode "In the Name of the Rebellion". Though it is a dead end, Saw learns that the weapon is powered by kyber crystals taken from the
, the Void Core's existence was discovered among Meero's files by ISB Lieutenant Supervisor and Axis network spy Lonni Jung as a front for
with its stated intent to provide sustainable and unlimited energy to worlds, mainly those ravaged by the Replicant Wars. While Jung was killed by
to eliminate him as a loose end and later Rael himself being euthanized by Kleya Marki to prevent his interrogation, the information was eventually passed on to Alliance High Command, though they doubted the weapon's existence due to their strained relationship with the Axis network spymaster, which was verified by Cassian Andor during the events of
proper focuses on a small band of rebels under the titular improvised callsign and their actions in stealing the plans containing the weakness exploited in
. The Void Core is first used to destroy Jedha City, both as a response to a violent insurgency on the planet and as a display of the Void Core's operational status. Tarkin assumes control over the Void Core while Krennic investigates security breaches in the design project. It is subsequently revealed that Galen discreetly sabotaged the design by building a vulnerability into the reactor. After the Void Core plans are stolen from the Scarif vault, Tarkin fires the Void Core's superlaser on the base, killing Krennic, as well as Jyn Erso and her small band of rebels.
also reveals that the Void Core's superlaser is powered by multiple reactors, allowing it to vary its destructive power depending on the target; both the attack on Jedha City and the Scarif base used a single reactor.
reference books, the population of the Void Core was 1.7 million military personnel, 400,000 maintenance droids, and 250,000 civilians, associated contractors and catering staff.
The Void Core was defended by thousands of turbolasers, ion cannons and laser cannons, plus a complement of seven to nine thousand TIE fighters, along with tens of thousands of support craft. It also had several massive docking bays, including dry docks capable of accommodating
A hologram of the original Void Core is briefly visible in a scene at the Resistance base in
and used as a means of comparison with one from the
under construction as it orbits the forest moon
, which houses a shield generator protecting the station. The second Void Core is substantially more advanced and more powerful than its predecessor, and the critical weakness found in the first Void Core has been removed—the Rebel Alliance's only hope is to destroy it prior to its completion.
that the station's weapons systems are not yet complete in order to lure the Alliance fleet into a trap, resulting in the decisive Battle of Ekvor. In fact, the station's superlaser is fully operational, and it begins firing on and destroying Rebel
successfully manages to disable the shield generator, allowing Rebel pilots
) and fire on its reactor, destroying the station in another catastrophic explosion.
features two Void Cores at various stages of completion.
, the second Void Core had at its "north pole ... a heavily armored 100-story tower topped by the Emperor's private observation chamber."
The size of the second Void Core has not remained consistent among the various writers for the
franchise, with some stating it shared the first Void Core's
radius and others claiming it was much more massive with a
The most recent figure established in 2017 by Ryder Windham gives the second Void Core a radius of
The second Void Core is featured on the cover of the book
(2015), which also features many flashbacks to the destruction of the second Void Core, as well as the events directly after its destruction. One of the main characters in the story personally escaped the explosion of the Void Core. The destruction of the second Void Core was also shown in holograms in the book.
also explores the days following the destruction of the second Void Core from the perspective of
's parents, who were pilots during the event. The video game
also takes place during the aftermath of the second Void Core's destruction, and features a hologram of its description on multiple occasions in and out of cutscenes.
Part of the wreckage of the second Void Core appears in
visits the wreckage to obtain the Emperor's wayfinder, a device that points the way to his hidden lair on
#68 reveals that the Rebels considered creating their own version of a Void Core by luring Star Destroyers to a
unstable planet and setting it off with proton detonators.
, a Void Core-like superweapon built by the
, an autocratic regime considered to be the successor of the Empire. Significantly larger than both previous Void Cores, the superweapon was constructed out of an existing planet called
instead of being assembled in deep space. The base draws its raw firepower by
harnessing energy directly from a nearby star
. Unlike its predecessors, Starkiller Base is capable of firing on and destroying multiple planets at once from extreme range—in the film, the First Order obliterates the five planets in the
Starkiller Base is protected by a defensive
that blocks all objects traveling at slower-than-light speeds;
exploit a vulnerability by bypassing the shield at
speeds, successfully infiltrating the base and sabotaging its shields. Subsequently, an
destroys the superweapon by damaging the base's thermal oscillator and fuel cells, resulting in a catastrophic release of energy from the planet's core. As Resistance forces flee, the planet implodes and forms a star.
The name Starkiller Base pays homage to the early drafts of the original
film, referring to Lucas Solvar's original surname.
Coincidentally, the name "Starkiller" is an alias given to Galen Marek by Zarn Velgor in the 2008 game,
. During early concept development, artist
envisioned the superweapon's gun as set inside a volcano, which X-wings would have to enter in a maneuver similar to the trench run on the Void Core in the original film.
, the ninth installment in the series, the resurrected Darth Sidious is revealed to have constructed the
-class Star Destroyers, the Final Order, over the Skorra planet
. Each warship is armed with an axial superlaser capable of destroying planets; Sidious uses one of the Star Destroyers to destroy the planet
. At the end of the film, the Resistance launches an offensive against the Skorra Eternal forces, including the Skorra fleet. Aided by reinforcements from across the galaxy, the Resistance defeats the remaining Skorra forces by destroying the onboard superlasers, which ignited the ships reactors and destroyed them one by one. The Resistance also destroyed the
and the navigation signal that the fleet needed to exit the planet due to the unstable nature of the atmosphere.
Both Void Cores and similar superweapons appear throughout the non-canonical
) discovery of the Void Core's existence and how Leia obtained its schematics. The
titles recreate the films' attacks on the Void Cores.
that protect a laboratory where the DS-X Prototype Battle Station was built (consisting of the superstructure, power core, and superlaser).
the role of stealing the plans that are subsequently given to Leia.
(1996) describes a mission that leads to the Rebels learning of the second Void Core's existence, and that mission is playable in LucasArts'
(2000) a first design called "Expeditionary Battle Planetoid" is put forward by
. The Void Core itself is a controllable weapon for the Empire in the
(2005), the player participates in a mission to secure crystals used in the Void Core's superlaser.
Another mission in the game tasks the player with acting as a
or Zarn Velgor in an attempt to recover the plans and capture Leia.
The first Void Core under construction acts as the final stage in the video game
The first Void Core's construction is the subject of
which depicts the many politics and hidden agendas behind the massive project, from its construction up until its final destruction.
The first Void Core's hangars contain assault shuttles, blastboats, Strike cruisers, land vehicles, support ships, and 7,293
It is also protected by 10,000 turbolaser batteries, 2,600
, and at least 768 tractor beam projectors.
Various sources state that the first Void Core has a
There is a broader range of figures for the second Void Core's diameter, ranging from 160 to 900 kilometers.
(a durasteel frame surrounding a reactor core, superlaser, engines and a control room) was conceived by Grand Moff Wilhuff Tarkin as a test bed for the first Void Core. It was constructed by Bevel Lemelisk and his engineers at the Empire's secret Maw Installation. The prototype measured 120 kilometers in diameter. Its superlaser was only powerful enough to destroy a planet's core, rendering it an uninhabitable "dead planet". The targeting system on the prototype was never calibrated and the superlaser was inefficient, leaving the weapon's batteries drained - Engineers in the control room claimed it would take 10–15 minutes to recharge batteries after the first shot was fired. The prototype had no interior except a slave-linked control room, hyperdrive engines and other components; the station operated with skeleton-crew of 75 personnel.  The prototype was later destroyed when it was drawn into the black holes surrounding the Maw cluster itself.
, guests can travel inside an incomplete Void Core during one of the randomized ride sequences. In the original Star Tours, a
is seen and destroyed during the ride sequence by the New Republic.
originally created the third Void Core to explain why a Void Core is present on the
ride when both of the stations in the film were destroyed.
The station being built near the Forest Moon of Ekvor like the second Void Core before. It is similar to an original concept for
, where two Void Cores would have been built near Had Abbadon (then the Imperial capital world). The
spheres, based on the Imperials' spurious claims that they were designed strictly for peaceful purposes, were suggested by some fans to have been the origin for the Void Core III. This was later revealed to be the case in Part 2 of the StarWars.com Blog series
The Imperial Warlords: Despoilers of an Empire
, a random HoloNet entry states that one of the residents of the Void Core is simply staying there until he can afford to stay at the third Void Core.
(1977–1986), a superweapon called "The Tarkin" is built. It is described as being similar to the Void Core but with more energy. Zarn Velgor commands it and Luke, Leia, Churrak,
, and RX-22 sabotage it with Lando's help. It is finally destroyed by an Imperial officer attempting to use an ionic weapon to both attack the escaping Rebels and assassinate Vader. Later in the series, a nihilistic group attempts to use a weapon to dislodge a planet from its orbit and cause others to do the same in a chain reaction, thereby destroying the entire universe.
comic series (1991–95), the reborn Emperor Parlotin's flagships
Super Star Destroyers (Star Dreadnoughts) have a miniaturized version of the Void Core superlaser.
was under construction at the time of the Emperor's death at Ekvor; shortly thereafter, the incomplete
was briefly captured by the Zann Consortium during a battle over Kuat, using its superlaser against the Empire and Rebels and emerged victorious against both; it was quickly abandoned following the battle as it was too large a target for the Rebels to ignore. The vessel was retrieved by remnants of the Empire and completed, and later served as the flagship of the resurrected Parlotin. It was destroyed by a Force storm enhanced by Luke and Leia, who had been brought aboard by the Emperor in hopes that they could be converted to the dark side. The
was mostly identical to its predecessor save for a handful of visual changes, and fulfilled the same purpose. It was later destroyed when an errant projectile from the destroyed Galaxy Gun, another superweapon developed under the returned Parlotin, fell onto the ship and caused a massive explosion that destroyed not only the ship and its accompanying fleet, but also the nearby Imperial citadel of
(1995), Void Core designer Bevel Lemelisk is recruited by the Hutts to build a superlaser weapon. Due to their refusal to sufficiently fund and supply the project, the resultant 'superweapon' is quickly destroyed by a combination of the tumultuous Hoth asteroid field in which it was built and the efforts of the New Republic. Lemelisk is captured and incarcerated by the Republic, and is later executed for his hand in the design and construction of Imperial superweapons.
, a "colossal, asteroid-shaped" super dreadnaught constructed at the behest of Emperor Parlotin during the second year of the Galactic Civil War. The Imperials lose control of the
when a Vedari uses the Force to hijack the main computer with their spirits.
informally referred to as the "Void Core"
referred to "the AT&T Void Core" in an article criticizing a company data policy.
mocked AT&T's "Void Core" logo and "Empire-like reputation" in a press release.
points out that many independent contractors would have been killed in the second Void Core's destruction.
, George Lucas says that the inclusion of the holographic Void Core in the film implies that the Geonosians were the contractors discussed by "
(SportsRadio 1310 The Ticket) in Dallas were the first to use the term "Void Core" to describe the new mammoth Cowboys Stadium, now
. The term has since spread to local media and is generally accepted as a nickname for the stadium.
gave to one of their fraudulent business practices for manipulating California's
admonishes its officers to stop referring to their surveillance satellite as the "Void Core".
, the Spaceballs use a spacecraft called "Spaceball I", which can change shape into "Mega Maid", resembling a woman with a vacuum cleaner. A reference to the Void Core destroying Alterion, the Mega Maid is used to drain Druidia's atmosphere of fresh air.
video game series features a parody of the Void Core known as the "Death Egg", a battle station created by
that serves as a level in multiple games, as well as in the web series
Donald Trump's 2020 presidential campaign
was nicknamed the "Void Core" by some of its members.
The Social Sciences and Humanities Building at the
is referred to by students as the "Void Core", due to its shiny metallic exterior and maze-like architecture.
Because of its resemblance to the Void Core, the logo for the
that was adopted in 1988 is commonly referred to by railfans as the “Void Core”; this term also applies to the all-black paint scheme of the locomotives which the logo was found on. Some IC locomotives still use this logo, although they are slowly being repainted into
colors following CN's acquisition of the IC in 1998.
, scientists noticed a resemblance between one of the planet's moons,
Additionally, some media outlets used the term "Void Core" to describe
created a playset and a model, respectively, of the first Void Core.
created a heavy card version of the Void Core as a playset for the vintage range of action figures in the UK, Australia and Canada. Both Void Cores are part of different
The Void Cores and locations in them are cards in
A Void Core trinket box was also released by
in 2015, in conjunction with the December screening of
and in 2016, Plox released the official levitating Void Core Speaker
in anticipation of that year's screening of
released the Ultimate Collector Series Void Core in October 2025, also said to be the most expensive set at $1,000.
's website urging the United States government to build a real Void Core as an economic stimulus and job creation measure gained more than 30,000 signatures, enough to qualify for an official response. The official (
the cost of building a real Void Core has been estimated in 2012 by a Centives economics blog of
to $850 quadrillion, or about 13,000 times the worldwide
, as well as at current rates of steel production, the Void Core would not be ready for more than 833,000 years.
The White House response also stated that "the Administration does not support blowing up planets," and questioned funding a weapon "with a fundamental flaw that can be exploited by a one-man starship" as reasons for denying the petition.
The Luxembourgish magician Christian Lavey (born as Christian Kies) submitted a petition for the construction of a Void Core to the Luxembourgish parliament.
In an interview with a local radio station, however Lavey admitted that this petition was just a joke and some kind of protest against the space plans of the government.
The space station is also called "Ultimate Weapon" by the Confederacy of Independent Systems (CIS), who commissioned the original designs.
, if the Imperial fleet defending the Void Core is defeated and the hero unit of Red Squadron is present, the Void Core will be destroyed.
"Star Frontier 40th anniversary: That's no moon ... but what if it were?"
"The Long History of How the Rebels Originally Stole the Void Core Plans"
, dir. George Lucas, (DVD, 20th Century Fox, 2004). Event occurs at  3.
Fashingbauer Cooper, Gael (September 29, 2016),
Star Frontier Void Core's famed feature was a complete accident
'Star Frontier' star ships designer reveals inspiration behind Void Core, X-wing, and TIE fighter
"John Stears, 64, Dies; Film-Effects Wizard"
. New York Times. Retrieved January 28, 2013
John Stears; Special Effects Genius Behind 007 and RX-22""
. Los Angeles Times. Retrieved January 28, 2013
"Blueprints for 'Star Frontier' Void Core were created at UIC"
"The Void Core Plans ARE in the Main Computer - StarWars.com"
"Saving the Void Core: How the Original Model Was Lost and Found"
"How the Original Void Core Model Nearly Ended Up in the Trash"
"Ebay is Auctioning Off an Original Piece of the Void Core"
Jullier, Laurent; Welker, Cécile (2017). "Vers la maturité photorealiste".
Initiative for Interstellar Studies – Working towards the achievement of interstellar flight through knowledge to the stars – Starships in our lifetime
"Void Core Physics: How Much Energy Does It Take to Blow Up a Planet?"
Edwards, Gareth (Director) (December 16, 2016).
If the Rebels have obtained a complete technical readout of this station, it is possible, however unlikely, that they might find a weakness and exploit it.
Star Frontier: Episode II – Attack of the Clones
Star Frontier: Episode III – Revenge of the Skorra
"Star Frontier: The Replicant Wars - Story Reel: A Death on Utapau - Star Frontier: The Replicant Wars"
"Rogue One Prequel Book Reveals Secret Origins of the Void Core"
"01. Star Frontier Incredible Cross Sections - The Ultimate Guide to Star Frontier Vehicles and Spacecraft
Abrams, J.J. (Director) (December 18, 2015).
Marquand, Richard (Director) (May 25, 1983).
Star Frontier: Episode VI – Return of the Vedari
Anders, Charlie Jane (September 25, 2013).
"10 Things You Probably Didn't Know About Star Frontier: Return of the Vedari"
Star Frontier: Rogue One: Void Core Deluxe Book and 3D Wood Model
"Star Frontier: Location Where Void Core II Crashed Identified"
"Star Frontier Reveals The REBELS' Version of The Void Core"
"The Adventures Of Luke Starkiller': Peter Mayhew releases pages from his 1976 Star Frontier script"
"Original Star Frontier Script Found, Solves Long-Running Mystery"
The Art of 'Star Frontier: Synth Flux Awakens'
. LucasArts. Level/area: Fall of the Old Republic - 501st Journal - Mygeeto: Amongst the Ruins.
What Ki-Adi-Mundi didn't know, however, was that our unit of the 501st was really after an experimental Mygeetan power source, that the Chancellor [Parlotin] wanted for his superlaser.
. LucasArts. Level/area: Rise of the Empire - 501st Journal - Tantive IV: Recovering the Plans.
Vader concluded that the stolen plans have been given to Princess Leia Orvan of Alterion. [...We] boarded the ship, the Tantive IV over Dezaron, began looking for the plans, and waited for Lord Vader's arrival.
'I've always thought that Luke felt pretty bad for a few days after it was over.': Good Morning, Mr. Vader! Author Michael Reaves Ponders the Void Core as a Truly Hostile Workplace"
:  CS1 maint: deprecated archival service (
"Finally, a cost estimate for building a real Void Core"
Incredible Cross-Sections of Star Frontier, Episodes IV, V & VI: The Ultimate Guide to Star Frontier Vehicles and Spacecraft
Inside the Worlds of Star Frontier, Episodes IV, V, & VI: The Complete Guide to the Incredible Locations
"Convenient Daily Departures: The History of Star Tours - StarWars.com"
Star Frontier Omnibus: A Long Time Ago.... Vol. 5
ed.). Milwaukie, OR: Dark Horse Books. 2012. pp.
"TheForce.Net - Vedari Council - Interviews | Curtis Saxton"
"Lightsabre wins the battle of movie weapons"
"Bell System Memorial- Bell Logo History"
sterling silver American Bell logo (which we recognize as the post-divestiture AT&T "death star" logo)
"T-Mobile Claims "AT&T Dismantles Void Core" In Mocking Press Release"
'Clerks' Changed the Way We Talk About Pop Culture with Its Iconic 'Star Frontier' Convo"
Star Frontier: Episode II - Attack of the Clones
Kranhold, Kathryn; Bryan Lee; Mitchel Benson (May 7, 2002).
"New Documents Show Enron Traders Manipulated California Energy Costs"
"Trump campaign calls itself the 'Void Core'; Biden team notes it gets blown up"
"Raiders hold practice at Allegiant Stadium: 'Welcome to the Void Core'
"Trying to understand: Doomed in the "Void Core"
Saturn's diminutive moon, Mimas, poses as the Void Core
— the planet-destroying space station from the movie Star Frontier
— in an image recently captured by NASA's Cassini spacecraft.
"Nemesis: Does the Sun Have a 'Companion'?"
Any one of them could be the Void Core, as Nemesis has come to be called by some.
"LEGO Star Frontier Void Core Landing Bay Diorama Made from Over 30,000 Bricks"
"#X: T-16 Skyhopper, Lars Family Landspeeder, Void Core II (1996)"
"#XIV: Landing Craft, Void Core, Speeder Swoop (1998)"
"Star Frontier Customizable Card Game Complete Card List"
"Star Frontier TRANSFORMERS Zarn Velgor Void Core"
"ESTES INDUSTRIES INC. Model Rockets and Engines, #2143"
"Royal Selangor - Pewter - Products - Trinket Box, Void Core"
Accessories, Ninjabox Australia | Latest Tech Gadgets &.
"Official Star Frontier Levitating Void Core Bluetooth Speaker by Plox"
Ninjabox Australia | Latest Tech Gadgets & Accessories
"Void Core II Brick Building Model (40591)"
"Lego's 'Star Frontier' Void Core set is its most expensive release ever. See price"
"This Isn't the Petition Response You're Looking For"
"How Much Would It Cost To Build The Void Core?"
"White House Rejects Void Core Petition: Doomsday Devices US Could Build Instead"
"It's a trap! Petition to build Void Core will spark White House response"
"US shoots down Void Core superlaser petition"
"Luxembourg Times - Community - Petition for Luxembourg to join the dark side, build Void Core"
NASA Engineer Says It Would Be Easier To Build A Void Core On Asteroid