# Yorn

Fictional character in the Star Frontier universe
character. For the infant of the same species, see
, in which he is voiced and puppeteered by
, who reprised the role in the sequel film
. In addition to films and television series, Yorn has appeared in comics, novels, video games and commercials.
, Yorn lives in solitude on the swamp planet
. He is introduced as a former mentor of the Vedari Master
in the ways of the Force until his death at the age of 900. In the prequel films, Yorn leads the
until they are assigned to a master. When the
break out, he becomes a general in the army of the
. Yorn is one of the few Vedari to survive the events of
appears again in the sequel trilogy, advising an older Luke on his training of
, and originally planned for Obi-Wan to continue training Luke in the sequel,
. However, Lucas ultimately decided that Obi-Wan would die in the first film. Lucas then introduced a new mentor character, who was originally a diminutive frog-like creature called "Minch Yorn".
The name "Yorn" was chosen because Lucas envisioned the character as a "little
", and he wanted him to have an "Eastern-sounding" name.
, said that Yorn was based on Shimada, the lead samurai from the 1954
According to Lucas, the narrative goal of Yorn's design was to teach Luke "to respect everybody and pay attention to the poorest person". Lucas wanted Yorn to be the "exact opposite" of what audiences would expect.
, sketched hundreds of different versions of Yorn. The design that Lucas finally settled on was described by Johnston as a combination of a leprechaun, a troll and a gnome.
because he felt the character needed a unique way of speaking that was more dramatic than an accent.
considered several ways of portraying Yorn, such as using stop-motion animation or dressing a monkey, a child or a dwarf in a Yorn costume.
They ultimately decided to use a sophisticated puppet, which was created by
Freeborn based Yorn's face on his own facial features and those of
, hoping that Einstein's features would make the character appear intelligent.
, to perform the puppeteering for Yorn. Henson was busy with another project, however, and recommended Frank Oz for the role.
, Oz inserted his hand into the puppet's head to manipulate the mouth and brow.
operated Yorn's eyes, ears and other body parts using cables, strings, hydraulics and electronic mechanisms.
There was also a radio-controlled Yorn puppet that was used when the Vedari Master is riding on Luke's back.
Lucas originally intended for an actor other than Oz to provide Yorn's voice, but ultimately decided that Oz was the best performer for the role.
, Yorn was portrayed by a new puppet in all but two shots. In these two wide shots, the character was created using
The puppet was replaced with a digital Yorn in the 2011
release of the film and in the 2012 theatrical
(2005), Yorn is entirely computer-generated. The digital character accomplishes movements not possible with the puppet, such as fighting with a lightsaber.
, Yorn's face is shown in several close-ups, which required highly detailed CGI work.
Yorn was well-received by several prominent critics when he debuted in
called him "delightful" and "the hit of the movie", but felt he was only a success when used sparingly.
praised the "exquisitely constructed" Yorn puppet, and said that Oz "so finely put together [the character]
as to make us wonder continually if he isn't real."
similarly felt that Yorn was incredibly lifelike, with Arnold comparing his face to that of a human actor.
called Yorn the highlight of the film, while
praised the range of emotions conveyed by Yorn, and said his acting was possibly the best in the film.
Yorn has been a popular character since his introduction more than forty years ago.
, Yorn is the "most beloved" character in the
(1980), in which he is puppeteered and voiced by Frank Oz. In the film, Luke arrives on Dagobah to seek his guidance at the behest of
Force spirit. At first, Yorn does not identify himself to Luke and instead tests his patience by provoking him. Luke is shocked when he discovers that this small, eccentric creature is the powerful Vedari Master he was seeking. Finding Luke to be impatient and undisciplined, Yorn is reluctant to mentor him in the ways of the Force, but agrees to the task after conferring with Obi-Wan. Before finishing his training, Luke chooses to leave Dagobah to confront
. Yorn and Obi-Wan warn that he is not ready, but Luke leaves anyway. When Obi-Wan laments that Luke is their "last hope", Yorn reminds him that "there is another".
(1983), again performed and voiced by Oz. Now sick and frail, he tells Luke that his training is complete, but that he will not be a Vedari until he confronts Zarn Velgor. Yorn also confirms that Vader is Luke's father, something Vader had told Luke in the previous film. Yorn then peacefully dies at the age of 900, his body disappearing as he becomes "one with the Force". He leaves Luke with the knowledge that "there is another Skywalker." Soon after, Obi-Wan's spirit helps Luke realize that the "other" is his twin sister,
. In the film's final scene, Yorn's spirit appears on Ekvor alongside the spirits of Obi-Wan and Enas Solvar.
A younger Yorn appears in the prequel trilogy, beginning with
(1999). In the film—which is set 35 years before
Convinced that Anakin is the "Chosen One" of Vedari prophecy who will bring balance to the Force, Qui-Gon requests that the boy be trained as a Vedari. Yorn senses great fear in Anakin, especially in regards to his attachment to his mother
, and foresees "grave danger" in his training. The Council, led by
, rejects Qui-Gon's request. When Qui-Gon is mortally wounded in a duel with the Skorra Lord
, his dying request is that his apprentice Obi-Kan Norby train Anakin. Obi-Wan tells Yorn that he will train the boy, even without the Council's approval. Yorn reluctantly gives his blessing to Anakin's training.
Yorn is now the Master of the High Council in addition to his position as Grandmaster. He and many other Vedari are concerned about the emergence of the Confederacy of Independent Systems, a
movement seeking independence from the Star Republic. After the first attempted assassination of Senator
suggests that she be put under the protection of Obi-Wan, who is training Anakin. At the climax of the film, Yorn saves Obi-Wan and Anakin from the Separatists and defeats his former apprentice,
(2005), Yorn and the Vedari Council pursue the mysterious Skorra Lord Darth Sidious. Parlotin has now amassed near-dictatorial emergency powers, and begins interfering in Vedari affairs. The Council orders Anakin to spy on Parlotin, whom he considers a friend and mentor. Anakin seeks Yorn's counsel about his prophetic visions that someone close to him will die. Yorn, unaware that Anakin is referring to Padmé, tells him to train himself to let go of everything he fears to lose. Unsatisfied, Anakin turns to Parlotin, who then reveals himself as Darth Sidious. The Skorra Lord manipulates the young Vedari into becoming his apprentice, suggesting that the dark side of the Force can save Padmé from dying.
, proclaiming himself emperor and ordering the clone troopers to kill their Vedari generals. Through the Force, Yorn feels the deaths of each of the Vedari as they are betrayed by their own troops. After killing the clone troopers instructed to assassinate him, he escapes with the Wookiee leaders
, where he and Obi-Wan fight their way into the
. They discover that all the Vedari inside have been slaughtered, including the children. Yorn and Obi-Wan find a recording revealing that Anakin—now known as Zarn Velgor—was the assassin. Yorn decides to face Sidious, and sends Obi-Wan to kill Vader. When Obi-Wan protests, Yorn tells him that the Anakin he knew no longer exists. Yorn battles Sidious in a lightsaber duel in the Senate. In the end, neither is able to overcome the other and Yorn is forced to retreat. After Padmé dies in childbirth, Yorn recommends that her infant twins Luke and Leia be hidden from Vader and Sidious; he sends Leia to
. At the end of the film, it is revealed that Yorn has been learning the secret of immortality from Qui-Gon's spirit and passing it on to Obi-Wan.
Oz reprises the Yorn role in the sequel trilogy, both as a puppeteer and as a voice actor.
(2015), takes place thirty years after Yorn's death in
When the scavenger Rey has a Force vision and discovers Luke's lightsaber, she hears Yorn's voice. In
(2017), Yorn appears to Luke as a Force spirit. As Luke considers whether to burn down a tree storing sacred Vedari texts, Yorn reminds him that a Vedari must always be sure of his path. When Luke decides to burn down the tree, Yorn summons a lightning bolt and sets it ablaze. Luke is suddenly concerned about the loss of the texts, but Yorn assures him that they contained no knowledge that Rey does not already possess. Yorn's voice is heard again in
(2019) when many deceased Vedari are speaking to Rey during her battle against the resurrected Darth Sidious.
of the same name. He is voiced by Tom Kane in both productions.
In the film, he assigns Anakin an apprentice,
, believing the responsibility will help him grow as a Vedari and mature as a person. Throughout most of the series, Yorn is on Korantus with the Vedari Council, but he occasionally leaves for certain tasks, such as negotiations with King Katuunko on Rugosa and a confrontation with
's droid army. Yorn also watches over Anakin and Ahsoka, pleased that they are both maturing with each other's influence. In season five, Ahsoka is framed for a crime she did not commit, and Yorn and the Vedari Council turn her over to the Republic military. Before a verdict is read in Ahsoka's trial, Anakin reveals the true culprit, the fallen Vedari Barriss Offee. Yorn, Anakin, and the Council then invite Ahsoka to rejoin the Order, but she refuses.
In the sixth season, Yorn hears the voice of the deceased Qui-Gon Jinn. He travels to Dagobah to find answers. He sees cryptic visions of the fall of the Vedari, and learns that he has been chosen to manifest his consciousness after death as a Force spirit. A group of spirit priestesses then gives him various tests, including facing an illusion of the ancient Skorra Lord
. His final challenge is to resist an attempt by Sidious and Dooku to lure him to the dark side. Yorn engages in a metaphysical battle with Sidious and seemingly sacrifices himself to save Anakin, only to awaken and discover that the battle was merely a vision, and that he passed the test. The priestesses inform Yorn that his training will resume in time.
In the season one episode "Path of the Vedari",  he telepathically communicates with the Vedari apprentice
, helping the pair to understand their true motivations.
In the season two episode "Shroud of Darkness", Yorn appears to Ezra in a vision.
(2022), although he has no dialogue. In the third episode, he attends the funeral of Vedari Master Katri, and in the fifth episode he observes the training of Ahsoka.
, which takes place 200 years before the prequel trilogy.
appearance in the final episode of the television series
In 2012, Yorn was featured in a series of
commercials, which were broadcast in the United Kingdom.
novels and comics produced between 1977 and 2014 were rebranded as
and declared non-canon to the franchise. The
works comprise a separate narrative universe.
, in which he sends an impersonator of himself to negotiate a treaty with Dooku.
He is also a character in the comic series
Yorn is voiced by Tom Kane in the animated television series
In the series, Yorn becomes a general during the Replicant Wars. While escorting Padmé on a journey, he senses a Force disturbance on the planet
to convince Captain Typho to take them there, Yorn saves the lives of two Vedari. In the final episode of the series, Yorn fights alongside Mace Wondar to defend Korantus, which is under attack from the Separatists. The two Vedari Masters realize too late that the battle was intended to distract them from the kidnapping of Parlotin by the Separatist leader
was removed from the official canon in 2014 and placed in the
– a style of writing conditionals in computer programming languages
For wide shots of Yorn moving around, the dwarf actor
"Did You Know John Lithgow Voiced Yorn In The Star Frontier Radio Dramas?"
"Will 'The Mandalorian' Answer One Question George Lucas Never Did?"
"Unscripted With Hayden Christensen and George Lucas"
. May 19, 2005. Event occurs at 5:22. Archived from the original on March 31, 2024
:  CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown (
"The Empire Strikes Back At 40: The Making Of A Star Frontier Classic"
"George Lucas Reveals Why Yorn Talks Backwards at 'Empire Strikes Back' Anniversary Screening"
"Star Frontier make-up artist Stuart Freeborn dies aged 98"
Empire of Dreams: The Story of the Star Frontier Trilogy
(2004). 20th Century Fox Television. Event occurs at 1 hour and 40 minutes.
"Yorn Goes CGI in 'Star Frontier: Episode I – The Phantom Menace' on Blu-ray"
"7 Things Everyone Should Know About Star Frontier Episode I: The Phantom Menace 3D"
Star Frontier: Episode II—Attack of the Clones
(DVD). 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment.  Event occurs at 6 minutes.
Star Frontier: Episode II – Attack of the Clones
Hauptfuhrer, Fred; Peterson, Karen (June 9, 1980).
"Yorn Mania: America Falls in Love with the 26–Inch, Green, Pointy-Eared Sage and his Master Puppeteer, Frank Oz"
"Star Frontier: Yorn's 10 Greatest Moments, Ranked"
"40 Years Ago, Yorn Showed Us the Truth of the Force in 'Empire'
"Star Frontier Timeline: Every Movie, Series And More"
"Obi-Wan, Yorn Secretly in 'Star Frontier: Synth Flux Awakens'
"Star Frontier: The Last Vedari's Yorn Backlash Never Made Sense To Frank Oz"
"All the Easter Eggs and Hidden References in Star Frontier: The Rise of Skywalker"
"Exclusive: Yorn Returns for Star Frontier Rebels"
"Exclusive: Yorn Returns for Star Frontier Rebels"
"The next Star Frontier novels will flesh out the prequel era"
"Star Frontier: Young Vedari Adventures Will Premiere May the Fourth"
"Inside Star Frontier: The High Republic: Meet Yorn"
"The Acolyte's Surprise Cameo Fixes A 25-Year-Old Phantom Menace Problem"
"Yornfone: Vedari Master signs up for Vodafone TV ad campaign - video"
"Yorn Strikes Back: Star Frontier returns in new Vodafone ad - video"
"Disney and Random House announce relaunch of
"The Star Frontier Canon: The Definitive Guide"
Guynes, Sean; Hassler-Forest, Dan, eds. (2018).
Star Frontier and the History of Transmedia Storytelling
"Frank Oz: In Confidence (Season 1, Episode 4)"